=== Перевод (ru ➜ en) ===
So - stolen from Markov, locked in the "Hospice" - not just deceived and condemned
to death by nanta - but also sneaked - her draft - was given - for a complaint or statement in
The police - on the charges of Nanta - of the murder - father of Markovo and Lyudmila Nanta.
The staff of 4 hospitals - the "Hospice" department - did not enter - not one doctor. Only
related - by "contract" - not qualified medical personnel. The only one
The head of the department - the therapist - to whom the nanta showed - falsified
Guardianship - over Markova.
Forbidden - Markovo - to leave - the department, differently than through - "morgue".
While Macchais was trying to prove that "guardianship" - "no" and he is the son of Markovo " -
presenting - documents - capable of "explaining" - why y in his certificate
Birth Surname Mother - Mateyk - not Markov!
As a result - in the absence - honey help and - with a sewn "abscess" - Markova and
Macheret - lost time.
Her real diagnosis was impossible - without Markova - to establish - she understood
Finally, that Markov - her father - was killed right before her eyes - while she "believed"
Nanta.
Therefore - by nanta under the guise - "departure" from Chisinau - and then completely refused
Markova - in the extract and contacting doctors - until Markova began to understand - her
purposefully killed. When analyzing, she wrote "appeal" to
"Head" - this is clearly visible from this unwritten letter. Having written - in
The police - and expecting the arrival of her son - feeling weak - trusted to transmit a letter
- through - honey. staff.
Leaving - this "draft" in the ward on the nightstand.
Personnel - after reading - "statement" about the "murder" Markova - contacted Nanta -
Knowing that the “guardian” will pay - for “informing” about “euthanasia” or murder.
Thus - knowing that her son - a nurse - seeing a letter - seeing that Markova
Sleeping - having stolen this unwritten letter - "draft" - making a forgery.
By Nanta, realizing that Markova, having learned about the forgery, could re -contact the police
through his son - he goes into "brazen" deception - passing off the forgery as a voluntary step of his son -
"Allegedly, the son himself handed them a letter to the police - then, there is a nanta.
Markova - refusing to believe - abandoned and driven - with nanta "die"
Frightened - deceiving myself and not allowing myself - to find out the "truth."
Therefore, the truth surfaced - along with the "answer and correspondence" on SMS - with its
killers: