=== Перевод (ru ➜ en) ===
European
convention
on human rights
European
Rights Convention
man
amended and supplemented by the Protocols
No. 11 and No. 14
accompanied by additional
protocol and protocols No. 4, 6, 7, 12, 13 and 16
3
The text of the Convention presented includes amendments
introduced in accordance with the provisions of Protocol No. 14 (CTS No. 194), which entered into force on June 1, 2010. Previously, changes were made to the text of the Convention in accordance with the provisions of Protocol No. 3 (CTS No. 45), which entered into force
from September 21, 1970, Protocol No. 5 (CTE No. 55), entered into
By virtue of December 20, 1971 and Protocol No. 8 (STE No. 118), which entered into force on January 1, 1990, it also includes the text of Protocol No. 2 (STE No. 44), which, in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 5, was an integral part of the Convention from the moment of its entry into force on September 21, 1970. All provisions in which were amended or add -on, according to the above protocols, Replaced by Protocol No. 11 (STEL No. 155), from the date of its entry into force on November 1, 1998. From this moment, protocol No. 9 (step
No. 140), which entered into force on October 1, 1994, was canceled,
And the protocol No. 10 (STE No. 146) lost its goal.
With information on the current state of signing and
ratification of the Convention and its protocols, as well as a complete list of declarations and reservations, can be found at
www.conventions.coe.int.
Only the English and French versions of the Convention are
authentic. This translation is not the official version of the Convention.
EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS
Council of Europe
F-67075 Strasbourg cedex
www.echr.coe.intoal
Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms ......... 5
Additional protocol ............................................................. 34
Protocol No. 4 ............................................................................ 37
Protocol No. 6 ............................................................................ 41
Protocol No. 7 ............................................................................. 45
Protocol No. 12 .................................................................................................... 51
Protocol No. 13 .................................................................................................... 55
Protocol No. 16 .................................................................................................... 59
5
Convention on the Protection of Rights
human and fundamental freedoms
Rome, 4 November 1950
The Governments which have signed this Convention,
are members of the Council of Europe,
Taking into account the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 10, 1948,
Given that this declaration aims to provide universal
and the effective recognition and exercise of the rights proclaimed in it,
Considering that the purpose of the Council of Europe is to achieve more
unity between its members and that one of the means of achieving this goal is the protection and development of human rights and the main freedoms,
reaffirming its deep commitment to the core
freedoms which are the basis of justice and peace in the world and the observance of which is best ensured, on the one hand, by a truly democratic political regime and, on the other hand, by the universal understanding and respect for the human rights to which they are committed,
determined as the European Governments
States moving a single desire and having a general heritage of political traditions, ideals, freedom and supremacy of law, take the first steps to ensure the collective exercise of some of the rights set forth in a universal declaration,
6 7
agreed on the following:
Article 1
Commitment to respect human rights
The High Contracting Parties shall ensure to everyone,
located under their jurisdiction, rights and freedoms defined in Section I of this Convention.
Section I
RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS
Article 2
Right to life
1. The right of each person to life is protected by law. No one
It may be deliberately devoid of life differently as in the fulfillment of the death sentence issued by the court for the commission of a crime in respect of which the law provides for such a punishment.
2. Deprivation of life is not considered a violation
of this article, when it is the result of an absolutely necessary use of force:
(a) to protect any person from unlawful violence;
(b) to effect a lawful arrest or
preventing the shoot of a face detained legally;
(c) for suppression, in accordance with the law, a rebellion or
mutiny.Article 3
Prohibition of torture
No one should be subjected to torture, nor inhuman or humiliating dignity or punishment.
Article 4
Prohibition of slavery and forced labor
1. No one shall be held in slavery or involuntary servitude.
condition.
2. No one should be attracted to forced or
Compulsory work.
3. For the purposes of this article, the term “forced or
“compulsory work” does not include:
(a) all work which is normally required to be done
a person in conclusion in accordance with the provisions of Article 5 of this Convention or conditionally released from such a conclusion;
(b) all military service, and in those countries, in
for whom conscientious objection to military service or service assigned instead of compulsory military service is recognized as legitimate;
(c) all service, mandatory in the case of extraordinary
a situation or disaster that threatens the life or well-being of the population;
(d) all work or service that is part
ordinary civil duties.
8 9
Article 5
Right to liberty and security of person
1. Everyone has the right to freedom and personal
inviolability. No one can be deprived of freedom
Otherwise, in the following cases, and in the manner prescribed by law:
(a) The legitimate content of the person convicted
competent court;
(b) legal detention or detention
(arrest) of a person for failure to comply with a court decision made in accordance with the law or for the purpose of ensuring the fulfillment of any obligation prescribed by law;
(c) legal detention or detention
persons produced so that it appears to the competent authority on the justified suspicion of committing an offense or in the case when there are sufficient grounds to believe that it is necessary to prevent the offense or prevent him from hiding after its commission;
(d) detention of a minor
a person on the basis of a lawful order for educational supervision or his lawful detention in order to bring him before the competent authority;
(e) legitimate detention of persons in order to
preventing the spread of infectious diseases, as well as the lawful detention of the mentally ill, alcoholics, drug addicts or vagrants;
(f) legal detention or detention
in order to prevent his illegal entry into the country or person against whom measures are being taken for his expulsion or extradition.
2. Each arrested immediately reports to
The language of his arrest and any charge brought to him understandable.
3. Each detainee or detained
in accordance with subparagraph “c” of paragraph 1 of this article, he is immediately brought before a judge or other official vested, according to the law, with judicial power, and has the right to trial within a reasonable time or to release pending trial. Release may be conditional on the provision of guarantees of appearance in court.
4. Everyone who is deprived of freedom as a result of arrest or
detention, has the right to a prompt court review of the legality of his detention and to release if his detention is declared unlawful by the court.
5. Anyone who has been the victim of arrest or detention
guard in violation of the provisions of this article, shall be entitled to compensation.
Article 6
The right to a fair trial
1. Everyone in the event of a dispute about his civil rights and
duties or when facing any criminal charge, is entitled to a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial tribunal established by law. Judgment shall be announced publicly, but the press and public may be excluded from all or part of the trial for reasons of morals, public order or national security in a democratic society, or when so required
10 11
interests of minors or to protect privacy
parties, or - to the extent strictly necessary in the opinion of the court - in special circumstances where publicity would prejudice the interests of justice.
2. Each accused of criminal
Crimes are considered innocent until his guilt is established by legal order.
3. Everyone accused of committing a criminal
Crimes have at least the following rights:
(a) to be immediately notified and detailed
in a language he understands, about the nature and basis of the charge brought against him;
(b) have enough time and opportunities for
preparation of their protection;
(c) protect yourself personally or through
a defense attorney of his own choosing or, if he does not have enough funds to pay for the services of a defense attorney, to use the services of a defense attorney assigned to him free of charge when the interests of justice so require;
(d) examine witnesses against him
or have the right to ensure that these witnesses are questioned, and have the right to call and interrogate witnesses in his favor on the same conditions as for witnesses showing against him;
(e) use the free help of a translator if
He does not understand the language used in court, or does not speak this language.
Punishment exclusively on the basis of the law
1. No one can be convicted of committing any
Acts or for inaction, which, according to the acting at the time of its commission by national or international law, was not a criminal offense. The punishment cannot be imposed more serious than the one that was subject to use at the time of the criminal offense.
2. This article does not prevent conviction and punishment
Any person for the commission of any act or for inaction, which at the time of his commission was a criminal offense in accordance with the general principles of law recognized by civilized countries.
Article 8
The right to respect for private and family life
1. Everyone has the right to respect his personal and family
life, his dwellings and his correspondence.
2.
authorities in the exercise of this right, except where such interference is prescribed by law and is necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security or public order, the economic welfare of the country, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.
12 13
Article 9
Freedom of thought, conscience and religion
1. Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion;
This right includes freedom to change its religion or beliefs
And freedom to confess their religion or beliefs both individually and together with other, public or private order in worship, training, sending religious and religious rites.
2. Freedom to manifest one's religion or belief is subject to
Only those restrictions that are provided for by law are necessary in a democratic society in the interests of public security, to protect public order, health or morality or to protect the rights and freedoms of others.
Article 10
Freedom of expression
1. Everyone has the right to freely express their opinion.
This right includes freedom to adhere to their opinion and freedom to receive and disseminate information and ideas without any interference by public authorities and regardless of state borders. This article does not prevent states in licensing radio broadcasting, television or cinema enterprises.
2. The implementation of these freedoms, imposing duties and
liability may be subject to certain formalities, conditions, restrictions or penalties as are prescribed by law and are necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security, territorial integrity or public order, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, for the protection of the reputation or rights of others, for the prevention of disclosure of information received in confidence, or ensuring the authority and impartiality of justice.
Article 11
Freedom of assembly and association
1. Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and
The freedom of unification with others, including the right to create trade unions and enter into those to protect their interests.
2. The exercise of these rights is not subject to any
restrictions, except for those provided by law and are necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security and public order, in order to prevent unrest and crimes, to protect health and morality or protect the rights and freedoms of others. This article does not interfere with the introduction of legal restrictions on the exercise of these rights by persons that are part of the armed forces, police or state administrative bodies.
Article 12
Right to marry
Men and women who have reached marriage age have the right to marry and create a family in accordance with national legislation governing the exercise of this right.
14 15
Article 13
The right to an effective means of legal protection
Everyone whose rights and freedoms are recognized in this
The Convention, violated, has the right to an effective means of legal protection in the state body, even if this violation was committed by persons acting in official quality.
Article 14
Prohibition of discrimination
The enjoyment of the rights and freedoms recognized in this Convention must be ensured without discrimination of any kind on grounds of sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, membership of a national minority, property, birth or any other ground.
Article 15
Deviation from compliance with obligations
In emergency situations
1. In case of war or other emergency circumstances,
threatening the life of the nation, any of the High Contracting Parties may take measures derogating from its obligations under this Convention only to the extent required by extraordinary circumstances, provided that such measures are not inconsistent with its other obligations under international law.
2. This provision cannot serve as a basis for any
NOT THE REGULATIONS FROM THE RATIONS OF Article 2, with the exception of cases of death as a result of legitimate military operations, or from the provisions of Article 3, paragraph 1 of Article 4 and Article 7.3. Any of the high contracting parties,
Using this right of retreat, in an exhaustive way informs the Secretary General of the Council of Europe about the measures introduced by it and the reasons for their adoption. She also informs the Secretary General of the Council of Europe on the date of the termination of such measures and the resumption of the provisions of the Convention in full.
Article 16
Restriction on political
activities of foreigners
Nothing in articles 10, 11 and 14 can be considered as an obstacle to high contracting parties to introduce restrictions on the political activity of foreigners.
Article 17
Prohibition of abuse of rights
Nothing in this Convention can be interpreted as meant that any state, any group of persons or any person has the right to engage in any activity or to perform any actions aimed at abolishing rights and freedoms recognized in this Convention, or to their restriction to a greater extent, which is provided for in the Convention.
Article 18
The limits of use
restrictions on rights
The restrictions permitted in this Convention in relation to these rights and freedoms shall not be applied for purposes other than those for which they were provided.
16 17
Section II
European Court of Human Rights
Article 19
Court's institution
In order to ensure compliance with obligations accepted on
themselves as High Contracting Parties to this Convention and the Protocols thereto, the European Court of Human Rights, hereinafter referred to as the "Court", is established. He works full time.
Article 20
The number of judges
The number of judges included in the court is equal to the number of high contracting parties.
Article 21
Requirements for judges
1. Judges must have the highest moral standards
qualities and meet the requirements for appointment to high judicial positions, or to be jurists of generally recognized authority.
2. Judges participate in the work of the court in personal quality.
3. Throughout the entire term of office of a judge
must not carry out any activity incompatible with their independence, impartiality or with the requirements arising from the nature of their full-time work. All issues arising in connection with the application of the provisions of this paragraph shall be decided by the Court. Article 22
Elections of judges
The judge from each of the high contracting parties is elected by the parliamentary assembly by a majority of votes from the list for him, including three candidates represented by this high contracting party.
Article 23
Term of office and dismissal from office
1. Judges are elected for a term of nine years. They can't be
re-elected.
2. The term of office of judges expire upon reaching them
seventy years of age.
3. Judges hold their posts until they are replaced. At the same time
After the replacement, they continue to consider the affairs that have already received to them.
4. The judge can be relieved of office only
if the remaining judges decide by a two-thirds majority that the judge no longer meets the requirements.
Article 24
Secretariat and speakers
1. The court has a secretariat, rights, duties and
The organization of which is determined by the regulations of the court.
2. When the court sits as part of a sole judge, the court
Uses the services of speakers who exercise their functions under the leadership of the chairman of the court. They form a division of the court secretariat.
18 19
Article 25
Plenary sessions of the court
At the plenary sessions, the court:
(a) elect its Chairman and one or two
Vice-Chairmen for a term of three years; They
may be re-elected;
(b) constitutes Chambers established for a specified period;
(c) elects the Presidents of the Chambers of the Court; they may be
re -elected;
(d) adopts the Rules of Court;
(E) elects the Chancellor secretary of the court and one or
several of his deputies;
(f) submits any petition in accordance with
paragraph 2 of article 26.
Article 26
Single judges, committees,
House and Big Chamber
1. To consider the cases sent to him, the court is sitting in
composed of a single judge, committees of three judges, Chambers of seven judges and a Grand Chamber of seventeen judges. The Chambers of the Court form committees for a specified period.
2. At the request of the plenary session of the Court, the Committee
The Ministers have the right, by unanimous decision, to reduce the number of judges in the Chambers to five for a certain period of time.
3. When sitting on a case alone, the judge has no right to consider
No complaint filed against the high Contracting Party from which this judge was elected. 4. Judge, chosen from a high contracting side,
The protruding side in the dispute, a member of the chamber and the Grand Chamber sits in the case as ex Officio. In the absence of such a judge or if he cannot participate in the meeting, as a judge in the case, a person appointed by the chairman of the court from the list, in advance presented by this party.
5. The Grand Chamber also includes the President
Courts, Deputy Presidents of the Court, Presidents of Chambers and other members of the Court appointed in accordance with the Rules of the Court. In cases where a case is referred to the Grand Chamber in accordance with the provisions of Article 43, no judge of the Chamber which gave the judgment may participate in its deliberations, with the exception of the President of that Chamber and the judge selected from the High Contracting Party which is a party to the dispute.
Article 27
The competence of sole judges
1. The sole judge has the right to declare unacceptable
The complaint filed in accordance with Article 34, or exclude it from the list of cases subject to the court, if such a decision can be made without an additional study of the complaint.
2. This decision is final.
3. Unless the single judge declares inadmissible
The complaint or does not exclude it from the list of cases to be considered, then this judge sends her to the Committee or Chamber for additional study.
20 21
Article 28
Competence of committees
1. In relation to a complaint made in accordance with
Article 34, the committee has the right, by unanimous decision:
(a) declare it inadmissible or remove it from the list
subject to consideration, if such a decision
can be accepted without additional examination of the complaint; or
(b) declare it acceptable and simultaneously endure
ruling on the merits of the application if the underlying question concerning the interpretation or application of the provisions of this Convention or the Protocols thereto is already the subject of well-established case-law of the Court.
2. Decisions and regulations adopted in accordance with
paragraph 1 are final.
3. If a judge, elected from a high contracting
The parties, the protruding side in the dispute, is not a member of the committee, the latter is entitled to offer this judge to replace one of the members of the committee at any stage of proceedings, taking into account all the factors related to the case, including the question of whether this party disputed the procedure provided for by subparagraph “B” of paragraph 1.
Article 29
Decisions
on the admissibility of the complaint and on the merits of the case
1. If no decision has been made in accordance
with the provisions of Articles 27 or 28 or no ruling has been made in accordance with the provisions of Article 28, the Chamber shall decide on the admissibility and merits of individual applications made in accordance with the provisions of Article 34. The admissibility of the application may be decided separately.
2. The Chamber makes a decision on the admissibility of the complaint
The State filed under Article 33 and on the merits. The decision on the admissibility of the complaint is made separately, unless the Court, in exceptional cases, decides otherwise.
Article 30
Assignment of jurisdiction to the Grand Chamber
If the case, which is under consideration by the chamber, affects the serious issue relating to the interpretation of the provisions of the Convention or Protocols to it, or if the resolution of the issue may conflict with the decision previously issued by the court, the chamber may be given jurisdiction in favor of the Grand Chamber before being issued, if not one of the parties objects to this.
Article 31
The powers of the Great Chamber
Grand Chamber:
(a) makes decisions on complaints filed in
in accordance with Article 33 or Article 34, when any of the chambers lost to jurisdiction on the basis of the provisions of Article 30 or when the case was sent to it in accordance with the provisions of Article 43;
(b) makes decisions on issues transmitted
for consideration of the Court by the Committee of Ministers in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 46; And
22 23
(c) considers requests for consulting
conclusions sent in accordance with
The provisions of Article 47.
Article 32
Competence of the Court
1. The Court has jurisdiction over all matters relating to
Interpretation and application of the provisions of the Convention and Protocols to it, which can be transferred to it in cases provided for by the provisions of Articles 33, 34, 46 and 47.
2. In the event of a dispute regarding the competence of the Court
The court itself resolves the issue of the specific case.
Article 33
Interstate affairs
Any high contracting party can transfer to the court the question of any alleged violation of the provisions of the Convention and the protocols to it by another high contracting party.
Article 34
Individual complaints
The Court may receive applications from any individual, any non-governmental organization or any group of individuals who claim to be the victim of a violation by one of the High Contracting Parties of their rights recognized in this Convention or its Protocols. The High Contracting Parties undertake not to interfere in any way with the effective exercise of this right. Article 35
Eligibility Conditions
1. The court can accept the case for consideration only after
after all domestic remedies have been exhausted, as provided for by generally recognized rules of international law, and within six months from the date of the final decision of the national authorities in the case.
2. The court does not accept for consideration any individual
a complaint filed in accordance with Article 34, if it:
(a) is anonymous; or
(b) is essentially similar to the one that already
was considered by the court, or is already the subject of another procedure for international trial or settlement, and if it does not contain new facts related to the case.
3. The court declares inadmissible any individual
a complaint made in accordance with the provisions of Article 34 if he considers that:
(a) This complaint is incompatible with the provisions
this Convention or Protocols to it, clearly unreasonable or is an abuse of the right to file an individual complaint; or
(b) the applicant did not suffer significant damage, if only
The principle of respect for human rights, as defined in this Convention and its Protocols, does not require consideration of the complaint on its merits, and it is also provided that consideration of a case which has not been properly examined by a domestic court cannot be refused on this basis.
24 25
4. The court rejects any complaint transferred to him, which
deemed inadmissible under this Article. He
may do this at any stage of the proceedings.
Article 36
The participation of the third party
1. In relation to any pending case
either of the Chambers or the Grand Chamber, each High Contracting Party of which the applicant is a national, is entitled to submit written observations and take part in the hearings.
2. In the interests of the due administration of justice
The chairman of the court can invite any high contracting side that is not a party to the case, or any interested person who is not the applicant, submit written comments or take part in the hearings.
3. In relation to any pending case
either of the Chambers or the Grand Chamber, the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights may submit written observations and take part in hearings.
Article 37
Termination of proceedings
1. The court may, at any stage of the proceedings, accept
The decision to terminate the proceedings, if circumstances allow us to conclude that:
(a) The applicant no longer intends to seek consideration
their complaints; or
(b) the dispute has been settled; or (c) for any other reason determined by the Court,
if further consideration of the complaint is unjustified.
Nevertheless, the court continues to consider the complaint if this requires compliance with human rights guaranteed by this Convention and the protocols to it.
2. The court may decide to restore the complaint to the list
subject to consideration of cases if it considers that this is justified by circumstances.
Article 38
Procedure for considering the case
The court considers the case with the participation of representatives of the parties and, if necessary, undertakes an investigation into the circumstances of the case, for the effective conduct of which the High Contracting Parties participating in it create all the necessary conditions.
Article 39
Global agreements
1. At any stage of the proceedings, the court has the right
Make yourself at the disposal of interested parties in order to conclude a settlement agreement in the case on the basis of respect for human rights, as they are defined in this Convention and Protocols to it.
2. The procedure carried out in accordance with paragraph 1,
It is confidential.
3. In the case of the conclusion of a settlement agreement, the court excludes
The case from its list by making a decision, which gives only a brief presentation of facts and the achieved resolution of the dispute.
26 27
4. This decision is sent to the Committee of Ministers, which
supervises the fulfillment of the conditions of the world
agreements as set out in the decision.
Article 40
Open trials and access to documents
1. If, due to exceptional circumstances, the court does not accept
otherwise decided, its meetings are open.
2. Access to documents deposited in
The Secretariat is open to the public unless the President of the Court decides otherwise.
Article 41
Fair compensation
If the court announces that there was a violation of the Convention or Protocols to it, and the internal right of the high contracting party allows the possibility of only partial elimination of the consequences of this violation, the court, if necessary, awards fair compensation for the victim.
Article 42
Resolutions of the Chambers
The decisions of the Chambers become final in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 44.
Article 43
Referral of the case to the Grand Chamber
1. Within three months from the date of the Chamber’s decision
Decisions in exceptional cases are possible to appeal to any of the parties in the case of transferring it to the Grand Chamber.
2. Collegium consisting of five members of the Grand Chamber
It accepts the appeal if the case raises a serious issue regarding the interpretation or application of the provisions of this Convention or Protocols to it, or another serious issue of a general nature.
3. If the College accepts the appeal, then the Grand Chamber
makes its decision on the case.
Article 44
Final Rulings
1. The decision of the Grand Chamber is final.
2. The decision of either Chamber becomes final,
If:
(a) the parties do not claim that they will ask for a transfer
business in the Great Chamber; or
(b) after the expiration of three months from the date of issue
the decision did not receive an appeal to transfer the case to the Great Chamber; or
(c) The Collegium of the Grand Chamber rejects the request for
transfer of the case in accordance with Article 43.
3. The final decision is subject to publication.
Article 45
Motivation for resolutions and decisions
1. Resolution, as well as decisions on acceptability or
inadmissibility of complaints must be motivated.
2. If the resolution in whole or in part does not express
The unanimous opinion of the judges, then any judge has the right to present his own special opinion.
28 29
Article 46
Binding force and enforcement of regulations
1. The High Contracting Parties undertake to fulfill
The final court decisions in any case in which
They are the parties.
2. The final judgment of the Court is sent to the Committee
ministers who supervise its performance.
3. If the Committee of Ministers believes that the supervision of
The implementation of the final resolution is hindered by the problem of the interpretation of this resolution; it has the right to refer this issue to the court to issue a decision on the issue of interpretation. The decision to transfer the issue to the court requires a majority of votes two -thirds of the number of representatives authorized to take part in the work of the committee.
4. If the Committee of Ministers considers that High
The Contracting Party refuses to submit to the final decision in the case in which it acts as a party, it has the right, after sending an official notification to this party, and by making a majority of votes two -thirds of the number of representatives authorized to take part in the work of the Committee, to transfer the issue to the court, whether this party has not violated its obligation established in accordance with paragraph 1.
5. If the court establishes the fact of violation of paragraph 1, it
refers the matter to the Committee of Ministers to consider the measures to be taken. If the Court does not establish a violation of paragraph 1, it refers the case to the Committee of Ministers, which closes the consideration of the case. Article 47
Consultative conclusions
1. The Court may, at the request of the Committee of Ministers, rule
Consultative conclusions on legal issues regarding the interpretation of the provisions of the Convention and Protocols to it.
2. Such conclusions should not affect the questions,
relating to the content or scope of the rights or freedoms defined in Title I of the Convention and its Protocols, nor other matters which the Court or the Committee of Ministers might need to raise when considering any application under the Convention.
3. Decision of the Committee of Ministers to request an advisory
The court’s conclusion is accepted by a majority vote of representatives entitled to sit in the committee.
Article 48
The competence of the court in relation to
advisory opinions
The question whether a request for an advisory opinion by the Committee of Ministers falls within the competence of the Court, as defined in Article 47, is a matter for the Court to decide.
Article 49
Motivation for advisory opinions
1. Advisory opinions of the Court must be
motivated.
2. If the advisory opinion in whole or in part is not
He expresses the unanimous opinion of judges, then any judge has the right to present his own special opinion.
3. The advisory opinion of the court is sent to the committee
ministers.
30 31
Article 50
Costs of maintaining the Court
The expenses related to the activities of the court are incurred by the Council of Europe.
Article 51
Privileges and immunities of Judges
Judges, when performing their functions, use
privileges and immunities provided for
Article 40 of the Statute of the Council of Europe and in agreements concluded on its basis.
SECTION III
VARIOUS PROVISIONS
Article 52
Requests of the Secretary General
Upon receipt of a request from the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, each high contracting party presents clarifications regarding how its internal law ensures the effective application of any of the provisions of this Convention.
Article 53
Guarantees for recognized human rights
Nothing in this Convention can be interpreted as a restriction or diminishing of any of the rights of a person and fundamental freedoms that can be ensured by the legislation of any high contracting party or any other agreement in which it participates. Strength 54
The powers of the Committee of Ministers
Nothing in the real Convention deterses the powers of the Committee of Ministers, which it is endowed with the Charter of the Council of Europe.
Article 55
Rejection of other means of resolving disputes
High contracting parties agree, unless otherwise provided by a special agreement, not to resort to contracts, conventions or declarations in force between them when transferring to the consideration, by sending an application, dispute regarding the interpretation or application of the provisions of this Convention and not to use other means of resolving the dispute than provided for by this Convention.
Article 56
Territorial scope
1. Any State upon ratification or subsequently
may be declared by notification of the Secretary General of the Council of Europe that this Convention, taking into account
paragraph 4 of this article applies to all territories or any of them for the external relations of which it is responsible.
2. The convention applies to the territory
or the territories specified in the notification, from the thirtieth day after the receipt by the Secretary General of the Council of Europe of this notification.
3. The provisions of this Convention are applied to
the said territories, taking due account of local conditions.
32 33
4. Any state that made a statement in
in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article, may subsequently
At any time, to declare, in relation to one or more territories specified in this application, the recognition of the competence of the court to accept complaints from individuals, non -governmental organizations or groups of individuals, as provided for in Article 34 of the Convention.
Article 57
Reservations
1. Any state when signing this Convention
Or when they put it for storing its ratification letter, it can make a reservation for any specific provision of the Convention on the fact that one or another law acting at that time on its territory does not correspond to this position. In accordance with this article, a general reservation is not allowed.
2. Any reservation made in accordance with
this article must contain a summary of the relevant law.
Article 58
Dandation
1. A High Contracting Party may denounce
this Convention only after the expiration of five years from the date on which it became a Party to the Convention and six months after notification has been sent to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, who informs the other High Contracting Parties thereof.
2. Denunciation does not exempt the appropriate high
The contracting side of its obligations under this Convention regarding any action that could be a violation of such obligations and could be committed by it before the date of denial of denunciation. 3. Any tall contracting side that
ceases to be a member of the Council of Europe, under the same conditions ceases to be a Party to this Convention.
4. The Convention may be denounced in accordance with
with the provisions of the preceding paragraphs in respect of any territory to which it was subject under the provisions of Article 56.
Article 59
Signing and ratification
1. This Convention is open for signature
Member states of the Council of Europe. It is subject to ratification. The instruments of ratification are deposited with the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.
2. The European Union has the right to join this
Convention.
3. This Convention shall enter into force upon delivery to
deposit of ten instruments of ratification.
4. For those states that ratify the Convention
thereafter, it shall enter into force on the date of deposit by them of their instruments of ratification.
5. General Secretary of the Council of Europe notifies
All states are members of the Council of Europe on the entry into force of the Convention, about the high contracting parties that ratified it, and on the surrender of ratification letters that can be obtained later.
Committed in Rome on November 4, 1950 in English and
French, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy, which is kept in the archives of the Council of Europe. The Secretary General shall forward certified copies to all signatory States.
34 35
Additional protocol
to the Convention for the Protection of Rights
human and fundamental freedoms
Paris, 20.III.1952
Governments that have signed this protocol, which are
members of the Council of Europe,
determined to take measures to ensure
collective exercise of certain rights and freedoms other than those already included in Section 1 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed at Rome on 4 November 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the “Convention”), have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Property protection
Every natural or legal person has the right to respect for his property. No one may be deprived of his property except in the interests of society and under the conditions provided for by law and the general principles of international law.
Previous provisions do not detract from state rights
ensure the implementation of laws that are presented to it necessary to monitor the use of property in accordance with common interests or to ensure the payment of taxes or other fees or fines 2
Education
No one can be denied the right to education. The State, in carrying out the functions it assumes in the field of education and training, respects the right of parents to provide such education and training as is consistent with their religious and philosophical convictions.
Article 3
Free election right
The High Contracting Parties undertake to hold free elections at reasonable intervals by secret ballot under such conditions as to ensure the free expression of the will of the people in the selection of legislative bodies.
Article 4
Territorial sphere of action
Any high contracting party can, when signing or ratification or at any time subsequently send a statement to the General Secretary of the Council of Europe on the limits of its obligations regarding the application of the provisions of this Protocol to the territories specified in the statement, for the external relations of which it is responsible.
Any tall contracting side who directed
The application in accordance with the provisions of the previous clause may from time to time send a new application to change the conditions of any previous application or about
36 37
cessation of the provisions of this protocol in
in relation to any territory.
A statement made in accordance with the provisions of this
article shall be deemed to have been made in accordance with Article 56, paragraph 1, of the Convention.
Article 5
The ratio with the Convention
The High Contracting Parties shall consider Article 1,
2, 3 and 4 of this Protocol as additional articles to the Convention, and all provisions of the Convention shall apply accordingly.
Article 6
Signature and ratification
This Protocol is open for signature by Member States of the Council of Europe that have signed the Convention. It is subject to ratification simultaneously with or after the ratification of the Convention. The Protocol enters into force upon the deposit of ten instruments of ratification. In respect of each signatory State which subsequently ratifies the Protocol, it shall enter into force on the date of deposit of its instrument of ratification.
The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the General
to the Secretary of the Council of Europe, who notifies all Member States of the Council of Europe of States that have ratified the Protocol.
Committed in Paris on March 20, 1952 in English and
French, both texts have the same force in the only copy that is stored in the archive of the Council of Europe. The Secretary General sends a certified copy to each government that signed this protocol. Protocol No. 4
to the Convention for the Protection of Rights
human rights and fundamental freedoms
ensuring some rights and
freedoms in addition to those who are already
included in the Convention and the first
Protocol to her
G. Strasbourg, 16.IX.1963
Governments that have signed this protocol, which are members of the Council of Europe,
full determination to take measures to ensure
collective exercise of certain rights and freedoms other than those already included in Title I of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed
in Rome on November 4, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the “Convention”), and in
Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the first Protocol to the Convention, signed in Paris on 20 March 1952, agreed as follows:
Article 1
Prohibition of imprisonment for debts
No one can be deprived of freedom only on the basis that he is not able to fulfill any contractual obligation.
38 39
Article 2
Freedom of movement
1. Everyone who legally is on
territory of any State, has within that
territory the right to freedom of movement and freedom of choice of residence.
2. Everyone is free to leave any country, including their
own.
3. The exercise of these rights is not subject to any
restrictions other than those prescribed by law and necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security or public safety, for the maintenance of public order, for the prevention of crime, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.
4. The rights recognized in paragraph 1 may also, in certain cases
areas shall be subject to restrictions imposed in accordance with the law and justified by the public interest in a democratic society.
Article 3
Prohibition of sending citizens
1. No one can be sent by individual or
collective measures from the territory of the State of which he is a citizen.
2. No one may be deprived of the right to enter the territory
The state of which he is a citizen.
Article 4
Prohibition of collective expulsion of foreigners
Collective expulsion of foreigners is prohibited. Starting 5
Territorial scope
1. Any High Contracting Party may, if
The signing or ratification of this Protocol or at any time subsequently send a statement to the General Secretary of the Council of Europe on the limits of its obligations regarding the application of the provisions of this Protocol to those indicated in the application to the territories for the external relations of which it is responsible.
2. Any tall contracting side that directed
An application in accordance with the provisions of the previous clause may from time to time send a new application to change the conditions of any previous application or to terminate the application of the provisions of this Protocol in relation to any territory.
3. Declaration made in accordance with the provisions
This article is considered as made in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 56 of the Convention.
4. The territory of any state to which the real
The protocol is applied by virtue of its ratification or adoption by this state, and each of the territories to which this protocol applies by virtue of the statement of this state in accordance with the provisions of this article shall be considered as individual territories for the purpose of reference to the territory of the state in Articles 2 and 3.
5. Any State that has made a declaration in accordance with
With paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article, it may subsequently declare at any time, in relation to one or more territories indicated in this statement that it recognizes the competence of the court to accept complaints from individuals, non -governmental organizations or groups of private individuals, as provided for in Article 34 of the Convention, regarding the observance of all or any of articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this protocol.
40 41
Article 6
The ratio with the Convention
High contracting parties consider Articles 1,
2, 3, 4 and 5 of this Protocol as additional articles
To the Convention, and all provisions of the Convention are applied respectively.
Article 7
Signing and ratification
1. This Protocol is open for signature by States
– members of the Council of Europe who have signed the Convention. It is subject to ratification simultaneously with or after the ratification of the Convention. The Protocol comes into force after the deposit of five instruments of ratification. In respect of any signatory State which subsequently ratifies this Protocol, it shall enter into force on the date of deposit of its instrument of ratification.
2. Instruments of ratification are deposited
To the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, who notifies all Member States of the Council of Europe of States that have ratified the Protocol.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned have duly
For that, authorized, signed this protocol.
Committed in Strasbourg on September 16, 1963 in English and
French, both texts have the same force in the only copy that is stored in the archive of the Council of Europe. The General Secretary sends a certified copy to each state who signed this protocol. Protocol No. 6
to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights
and the main freedoms regarding
The abolition of the death penalty
г. Strasbourg, 28.iv.1983 y.
The member states of the Council of Europe which have signed this Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed at Rome on 4 November 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the “Convention”),
Considering that the development that took place in many states
- members of the Council of Europe, expresses a general trend in favor of the abolition of the death penalty, agreed on the following:
Article 1
The abolition of the death penalty
The death penalty is abolished. No one can be sentenced to death or executed.
Article 2
The application of the death penalty in wartime
A State may provide in its legislation for the death penalty for acts committed in time of war or when there is an imminent threat of war; such punishment is applied only in cases established by law and in accordance with its provisions. The State informs the General
42 43
Secretary of the Council of Europe relevant provisions of this
legislation.
Article 3
Prohibition of derogation from fulfillment of obligations
Deviations from the provisions of this Protocol on the basis of Article 15 of the Convention are not allowed.
Article 4
Prohibition of reservations
Reservations to the provisions of this Protocol on the basis of Article 57 of the Convention are not permitted.
Article 5
Territorial sphere of action
1. Any State may, upon signature or surrender by it
To store its ratification literacy or document on acceptance or approval, indicate the territory or territory to which this protocol extends.
2. Any state can subsequently at any time
By the statement sent to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, to extend the effect of this protocol to any other territory indicated in the application. In relation to this territory, the protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the date of receipt by the general secretary of the application.
3. Any application made on the basis of the two previous
paragraphs and relating to any territory indicated in it, can be withdrawn by notification sent to the Secretary General. The review comes into force from the first day of the month following the date of receipt by the General Secretary of this notification.
Article 6
Relation to the Convention
States parties consider Articles 1, 2, 3, 4
and 5 of this Protocol as additional articles to the Convention, and all provisions of the Convention shall apply accordingly.
Article 7
Signature and ratification
This Protocol is open for signature by Member States of the Council of Europe that have signed the Convention. It is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval. A member state of the Council of Europe may not ratify, accept or approve this Protocol without simultaneous or previous ratification of the Convention. Instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.
Article 8
Entry into force
1. This Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month
following the date on which five Member States of the Council of Europe express their consent to be bound by the Protocol in accordance with the provisions of Article 7.
2. For any member state that will express
Subsequently, his consent to the mandatory protocol for him, he enters into force on the first day of the month following the date of delivery to him for storage of his ratification certificate or document on acceptance or approval.
44 45
Article 9
Functions of the depository
General Secretary of the Councils of Europe notifies states
- Members of the Council of Europe O:
(a) each signature;
(b) the deposit of each instrument of ratification
or a document on acceptance or approval;
(c) each date of the entry of this protocol by virtue in
in accordance with Articles 5 and 8;
(d) every other act, notice or communication,
relating to this Protocol.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Committed in Strasbourg on April 28, 1983 in English and
French, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy, which is kept in the archives of the Council of Europe. The Secretary General of the Council of Europe shall send a certified copy to each Member State of the Council of Europe. Protocol No. 7
to the Convention for the Protection of Rights
man
And the main freedoms
G. Strasbourg, 22.XI.1984
The member states of the Council of Europe which have signed this Protocol,
full of determination to take further measures
to ensure the collective enjoyment of certain rights and freedoms through the application of the Convention on the Protection
human rights and fundamental freedoms signed in Rome
November 4, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the “Convention”),
agreed on the following:
Article 1
Procedural guarantees in case of expulsion of foreigners
1. A foreigner, legally living on
the territory of a state cannot be expelled from it otherwise than in the fulfillment of a decision adopted in accordance with the law, and should be able to:
(a) present arguments against his expulsion,
(b) request a review of his case, and
(c) for these purposes, be presented before
competent authority or before one or more persons designated by such authority.
46 47
2. A foreigner can be sent before the implementation of his
the rights listed in subparagraphs “a”, “b” and “c” of paragraph 1
This article, if such expulsion is necessary in the interests of public order or due to considerations of national security.
Article 2
Right to appeal against sentences
on criminal cases in the second instance
1. Every person convicted of committing a criminal offense
crime has the right to have the sentence passed against him or the punishment imposed on him be reviewed by a higher court. The exercise of this right, including the grounds on which it may be exercised, is governed by law.
2. From this right, exceptions to
Minor offenses recognized by such law, or when the relevant person was convicted by the Supreme Court or was found guilty and convicted as a result of a judicial revision of its justification.
Article 3
Compensation in case of miscarriage of justice
Where a person has, by final judgment, been convicted of a criminal offense and his sentence has subsequently been overturned, or he has been pardoned on the ground that some new or newly discovered fact conclusively establishes that a miscarriage of justice has occurred, the person punished as a result of such conviction shall be compensated in accordance with the law or existing practice of the relevant
The states, unless it is proved that an previously unknown circumstance was not in a timely manner completely or partially due to its fault.
Article 4
The right not to be convicted or punished twice
1. No one should be tried or punished again
Criminal order in the framework of the jurisdiction of the same state for a crime for which he was already justified or convicted in accordance with the law and criminal procedure norms of this state.
2. The provisions of the previous paragraph do not prevent
Repeated consideration of the case in accordance with the law and criminal procedure norms of the relevant state, if there is information about new or newly discovered circumstances or if, during the previous trial, significant violations that influenced the outcome of the case were committed.
3. Deviations from the implementation of this article on the basis
The provisions of Article 15 of the Convention are not allowed.
Article 5
Equality between spouses
The spouses have equal rights and bear equal civil liability in relations with each other and with their children in concerns marriage, marriage, and when divorced. This article does not interfere with states to take measures that are necessary to observe the interests of children.
48 49
Article 6
Territorial sphere of action
1. Any state can be signed or submitted to them
for storage of its ratification literacy or document
of acceptance or approval, specify the territory or territories to which this Protocol applies, and indicate to what extent it undertakes to apply the provisions of this Protocol to that territory or territories.
2. Any state can subsequently at any time,
by sending a declaration to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, to extend the application of this Protocol to any other territory specified in the declaration. The Protocol shall enter into force in respect of that territory on the first day of the month following the expiration of two months from the date of receipt by the Secretary General of the declaration.
3. Any statement made based on the previous two
paragraphs and relating to any territory indicated in it, can be withdrawn or changed by notifying the Secretary General of the Council of Europe. Review or change comes into force on the first day of the month, following two months from the date of receipt by the Secretary General of the notification.
4. Declaration made in accordance with the provisions
This article is considered as made in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 56 of the Convention.
5. The territory of any state to which the real
The Protocol shall apply by virtue of its ratification, acceptance or approval by that State, and each of the territories to which this Protocol applies by virtue of a declaration by that State in accordance with the provisions of this Article may be considered as separate territories for purposes of reference to the territory of a State in Article 1.6. Any State that has made a declaration in accordance with
with paragraphs 1 or 2 of this Article, may subsequently at any time declare, in respect of one or more of the territories specified in that declaration, that it recognizes the competence of the Court to receive applications from individuals, non-governmental organizations or groups of individuals, as provided for in Article 34 of the Convention, concerning compliance with Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of this Protocol.
Article 7
Relation to the Convention
States Parties shall consider Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of this Protocol as additional articles to the Convention, and all provisions of the Convention shall apply accordingly.
Article 8
Signing and ratification
This Protocol is open to signing by states - members of the Council of Europe who signed the Convention. It is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval. The state - a member of the Council of Europe cannot ratify, accept or approve this protocol without the previous or simultaneous ratification of the Convention. Ratification letters or documents on acceptance or approval are submitted for storage to the General Secretary of the Council of Europe.
Article 9
Entry into force
1. This Protocol shall enter into force on the first day
the month next two months from the date, when the seven states of the members of the Council of Europe express their
50 51
consent to the obligation for them of the protocol in accordance with
provisions of Article 8.
2. For any member state that will express
subsequently consenting to be bound by the Protocol, it shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of two months after the date of deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval.
Article 10
Functions of the depository
The Secretary General of the Council of Europe notifies all Member States of the Council of Europe of:
(a) each signature;
(b) surrender for each ratification letter
or document of acceptance or approval;
(c) on each date on which this Protocol enters into force
in accordance with Articles 6 and 9;
(d) every other act, notice or statement,
related to this protocol.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Committed in Strasbourg on November 22, 1984 in English and
French, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy, which is kept in the archives of the Council of Europe. The Secretary General of the Council of Europe shall send a certified copy to each Member State of the Council of Europe. Protocol No. 12
to the Convention on the Protection of Rights
human and fundamental freedoms
Rome, 4.xi.2000 g.
The member states of the Council of Europe which have signed this Protocol,
Taking into account the fundamental principle, according to
that all persons are equal before the law and are entitled to equal protection of the law;
full of determination to take further steps
to ensure the equality of all persons through the collective implementation of the general prohibition of discrimination based on the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Rome on 4 November 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the “Convention”);
reaffirming that the principle of non-discrimination does not prevent
States Parties to take measures to ensure full and effective equality, subject to objective and
reasonable justification for such measures,
agreed on the following:
Article 1
General prohibition of discrimination
1. Exercise of any right established by law,
must be provided without any
discrimination based on gender, race, color, language,
52 53
religions, political or other beliefs, national or
social origin, belonging to national minorities, property status, birth or by any other features.
2. No one can be discriminated with
parties of any public authorities on the grounds mentioned in paragraph 1 of this article.
Article 2
Territorial sphere of action
1. Any State upon signature or deposit
Ratification diploma or document on acceptance or approval may indicate the territory or territory to which this protocol applies.
2. Any State may thereafter at any time
by a declaration addressed to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, to extend the application of this Protocol to any other territory specified in the declaration. The Protocol shall enter into force in respect of that territory on the first day of the month following the expiration of three months from the date of receipt by the Secretary General of the declaration.
3. Any statement made based on the previous two
paragraphs and relating to any territory indicated in it, can be withdrawn or changed by notification directed in the name of the Secretary General. Review or change enter into force on the first day of the month, following three months from the date of receipt by the general secretary of the notification.
4. A statement made in accordance with the provisions
This article is considered as made in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 56 of the Convention.
5. Any state that made a statement in accordance
with paragraphs 1 or 2 of this Article, may subsequently at any time declare in respect of one or more of the territories specified in that Declaration that it recognizes the competence of the Court to receive applications from individuals, non-governmental organizations or groups of individuals, as provided for in Article 34 of the Convention, in relation to Article 1 of this Protocol.
Article 3
Relation to the Convention
States Parties consider Articles 1 and 2 of this Protocol to be additional articles to the Convention, and all provisions of the Convention shall apply accordingly.
Article 4
Signing and ratification
This Protocol is open to signing by states - members of the Council of Europe who signed the Convention. It is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval. The state of the Council of Europe cannot ratify, accept or approve this protocol without the simultaneous or previous ratification of the Convention. Ratification letters or documents on acceptance or approval are submitted for storage to the General Secretary of the Council of Europe.
Article 5
Entry into force
1. This protocol comes into force on the first day of the month,
the next three months from the date, when ten states - members of the Council of Europe express their consent to the mandatory for them of this protocol in accordance with the provisions of Article 4.
54 55
2. For any Member State which subsequently
expresses his consent to be bound by this
Protocol, it shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of three months from the date of deposit of the instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval.
Article 6
Depository functions
The Secretary General of the Council of Europe notifies all Member States of the Council of Europe of:
(a) each signature;
(b) surrender for each ratification letter
or a document on acceptance or approval;
(c) each date of the entry of this protocol by force in
in accordance with Articles 2 and 5;
(d) every other act, notice or communication,
related to this protocol.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Committed in Rome on November 4, 2000 in English and
French, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy, which is kept in the archives of the Council of Europe. The Secretary General of the Council of Europe shall send a certified copy to each Member State of the Council of Europe. Protocol No. 13
to the Convention for the Protection of Rights
human and fundamental freedoms
Regarding the abolition of mortal
executions in any circumstances
Wilnyus, 3.V.2002 g.
States - members of the Council of Europe who signed this protocol,
being convinced that the right of every person to life
is a fundamental value in a democratic society and that the abolition of the death penalty is fundamental to the protection of this right and the full recognition of the inherent dignity of every human being;
Desiring to strengthen the protection of the right to life guaranteed
The Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Rome on November 4, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the “Convention”);
noting that the protocol No. 6 to the Convention regarding the abolition
the death penalty, signed in Strasbourg on April 28, 1983, does not exclude the use of the death penalty for acts committed in time of war or when the threat of war is imminent;
the determination of the last step to take
the abolition of the death penalty in any circumstances,
56 57
agreed on the following:
Article 1
Abolition of the death penalty
The death penalty is canceled. No one can be sentenced to
death penalty or executed.
Article 2
Prohibition of deviations from fulfillment of obligations
Deviations from the provisions of this Protocol on the basis of Article 15 of the Convention are not allowed.
Article 3
Prohibition of reservations
Classes regarding the provisions of this Protocol on the basis of Article 57 of the Convention are not allowed.
Article 4
Territorial sphere of action
1. Any state can be signed or submitted to
deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval, indicate the territory or territories to which this Protocol applies.
2. Any State may thereafter at any time
by a declaration addressed to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, to extend the application of this Protocol to any other territory specified in the declaration. In respect of this territory, the Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of three months from the date of receipt by the Secretary General of the declaration. Article 5
Relation to the Convention
The participating states consider Articles 1 to 4 of this Protocol as additional articles to the Convention, and all provisions of the Convention are applied respectively.
Article 6
Signature and ratification
This Protocol is open for signature by Member States of the Council of Europe that have signed the Convention. It is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval. A member state of the Council of Europe may not ratify, accept or approve this Protocol without simultaneous or previous ratification of the Convention. Instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.
Article 7
Entry into force
1. This protocol comes into force on the first day of the month,
the next three months from the date, when ten states - members of the Council of Europe express their consent to the mandatory for them of this protocol in accordance with the provisions of Article 6.
2. For any Member State which subsequently
He will express his consent to the obligatory for him of this protocol, he enters into force on the first day of the month, following three months from the date of delivery of ratification letters or a document on acceptance or approval.
58 59
Article 8
Functions of the depository
Secretary General of the Council of Europe notifies everything
Member States of the Council of Europe on:
(a) each signing;
(b) surrender for each ratification letter
or a document on acceptance or approval;
(c) each date of the entry of this protocol by force in
in accordance with Articles 4 and 7;
(D) every other action, notification or message,
relating to this Protocol.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Committed in Vilnius on May 3, 2002 in English and
French, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy, which is kept in the archives of the Council of Europe. The Secretary General of the Council of Europe shall send a certified copy to each member State of the Council of Europe. Protocol No. 16
to the Convention for the Protection of Rights
man and basic freedoms
Strasbourg, 2.x.2013
The member states of the Council of Europe and other High Contracting Parties to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed at Rome on 4 November 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the “Convention”), which have signed this Protocol,
taking into account the provisions of the Convention and, in particular,
Article 19 establishing the European Court of Human Rights (hereinafter referred to as the “Court”);
Considering that the expansion of the Court's powers to issue
Consultative conclusions will contribute to the further strengthening of interaction between the court and the national authorities and thereby ensure the more effective application of the Convention in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity;
taking into account conclusion No. 285 (2013) parliamentary
Assembly of the Council of Europe, adopted on 28 June 2013,
60 61
Article 3
Commissioner of the Council of Europe on Human Rights and High
The contracting party, which includes a requesting court or tribunal, has the right to submit written comments and take part in the hearings. In the interests of proper administration of justice, the chairman of the court may also offer any other high contracting party or a person to submit written comments or take part in the hearings.
Article 4
1. Consultative conclusions must be
motivated.
2. If the advisory opinion in whole or in part is not
He expresses the unanimous opinion of judges, then any judge has the right to present his own special opinion.
3. Consultative conclusions are sent
the requesting court or tribunal and the High
The Contracting Party, to which this court or tribunal belongs.
4. Advisory opinions are subject to publication.
Article 5
Advisory opinions are not binding.
Article 6
The High Contracting Parties consider Articles 1 to 5 of this Protocol as additional articles to the Convention, and all provisions of the Convention shall apply accordingly. Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
1. Higher courts and tribunals of high contracting
Parties designated under Article 10 may request advisory opinions from the Court on key issues concerning the interpretation or application of the rights and freedoms set out in the Convention and its Protocols.
2. The requesting court or tribunal may apply
for an advisory opinion only in connection with a case before it.
3. The requesting court or the tribunal must motivate
your request and submit legal and actual circumstances that are relevant to the case he is under consideration.
Article 2
1. The collegium consisting of five judges of the Grand Chamber accepts
a decision on whether to grant a request for an advisory opinion, taking into account the provisions of Article 1. The panel must provide reasons for the decision to refuse the request.
2. If the College grants the request, the Grand Chamber
must issue an advisory opinion.
3. The composition of the board and the Grand Chamber mentioned in
The previous points include ex Officio judge, elected from the high contracting side, which includes a requesting court or tribunal. In the absence of such a judge or if he cannot participate in the meeting, as a judge in the case, a person appointed by the chairman of the court from the list, in advance presented by this party.
62 63Article 10
Upon signing or depositing its instrument of ratification
Certificates or documents on acceptance or approval, each high Contracting Party of the Convention should indicate by sending the application to the General Secretary of the Council of Europe Courts or Tribunals, which it determines for the purposes of paragraph 1 of Article 1 of this Protocol. This statement may subsequently be changed at any time in the same way.
Article 11
The Secretary General of the Council of Europe notifies the member states of the Council of Europe and other tall contracting parties to the:
(a) each signing;
(b) the deposit of each instrument of ratification
or document of acceptance or approval;
(c) on each date of entry into force of this Protocol in
in accordance with article 8;
(d) every application made in accordance with Article
10; And
(e) every other act, notice or communication,
relating to this Protocol.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Committed in Strasbourg on October 2, 2013 in English and
French, both texts have the same force in the only copy that is stored in the archive of the Council of Europe. The Secretary General of the Council of Europe sends a certified copy to each member state of the Council of Europe and other high contracting parties to the Convention.
1. This protocol is open for signing high
The Contracting Parties of the Convention, which can express their consent to its obligation to them:
(a) signature without condition of ratification, acceptance or
approval; or
(b) signature subject to ratification, acceptance
or statements, followed by ratification, acceptance or approval.
2. Ratification letters and documents on acceptance or
The approval is submitted for storage to the General Secretary of the Council of Europe.
Article 8
1. This protocol comes into force on the first day
The month following the expiration of three months, counting from the date when ten high contracting parties of the Convention expressed their consent to the mandatory protocol for them in accordance with the provisions of Article 7.
2. In relation to any high contracting side
Convention which subsequently expresses its consent to be bound by the Protocol, it shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of three months from the date of its expression of its consent to be bound by the Protocol in accordance with the provisions of Article 7.
Article 9
In relation to the provisions of this Protocol, reservations referred to in Article 57 of the Convention are not permitted.
European
convention
on human rights
European Court of Human Rights
Council of Europe
F-67075 Strasbourg cedex
Design: © ECHR - Photo: © Shutterstockwww.echr.coe.int
RUS