=== Перевод (ru ➜ en) ===
>>: Po Victor Răţoi call
Puledura Puledura <Test2983qoutlook.com>
05/07/2024, Tue, 21:49
Komy:archives-review@ohchr.org <archives-review@ohchr.org>
The
ant@procuratura.md <proc-ant@procuratura.md >
) Attachments: 3 (31 MB)
10_1444_23_rec_3.PDF; Warnings for non-compliance with judicial protection measures A. Herpy..semnat.pdf; Pairing case
with Torture Cases (1).semnat.pdf;
By: PULEDURA PULEDura <Test2983Qoutlook.com>
Sent: Tuesday, May 7, 2024 9:26 pm
To: Archives-reView@ohchr.org <archives-reView@ohchchr.org>
Copies: hrcspecialProcedures@ohchr.org <hrcspecialProcedures@ohchr.org>; Euro-Kombudsman
<EO@ombudsman.europa.eu>
Theme: >>: Call PO Victor Ratoi
At the first autopsy, the cause of death was stated as respiratory arrest and
heart - there was no mention: “the patient died of heart failure.
Passed off as a "forensic examination" as the subsequent results of the "second
autopsy " - showed that the patient's heart did not function‚ and that's it !!!
On January 9, 2022, no malignant tumor was diagnosed.
The malignant tumor was “diagnosed” by the family doctor - Arkhip -
therapist!!!
On 03/14/2022 a lethal injection of an unknown toxin was given under
the type of "morphine", and this injection - allowed the local doctor Arkhip - allowed to make
demanding to open the door to her and under the guise of "help" to his patient: Markovo
- launched - her sister and her husband. to Markova's apartment. My son gave me an injection
the requirement of the doctor Arkhip - not suspecting that the injection will do not having
medical education - Markova's sister. To give an injection Lyudmila
Nantoy and her husband accused Alexei Macheret of losing his passport - demanding it
show them in person. While Macheret went to get his passport and was given an injection - allegedly
"morphine". Where, 24 hours after death, a forensic medical examination is carried out like this?
It was not discovered when opening even in a minimum dose. This means that
initial conclusion about the cause of death from oncology and related
blocking pain often exceeding permissible for survival -
Deadly but humane in the case of oncology - turned out to be incorrect.
Investigators were distracted by an eight -month waiting time for waiting time
- what autopsy?!? After all, Markova was buried on March 19, 2024. The only thing.
What was required for repeated research is the grounds for permission for
exhumation of Markova's corpse. To which the suspects are convinced that only they
close relatives of Markova - presented and stolen during
assassination attempts on her and without the permission of Markova and her son Alexey who was taken away
Macheret. Macher who demanded an exhumation and gave permission to it - was
declared "insane", a certificate of a patient of schizophrenia Sergei Nanta -
having copied the name and surname provided to the police by the local doctor
Sylvia Arkhip. The investigating authorities called this Lyudmila
Nanta number to a psychiatrist: who declared that Sergei often impersonates himself
Alexei Macheret. Police - such a wording "on the contrary" put "on
his place "Explanation of Sylvia Arkhip is either otherwise, but showing
suspicious awareness of the “illnesses” of Markova and her husband
The legal successor according to the Decree of the investigative body is Macheret, according to
The district therapist "Specialist": oncology and psychiatry and the "opponent"
Opening - giving during the investigation - did not punish false testimonies.
Moreover, as the examination showed, there was no indication for sending for surgery
Markovo in life -threatening to be categorically prohibiting with temperature - in
Oncology Institute, as a general practitioner at clinic 12, but during this period
which became the "oncologist" which made the diagnosis "cancer in the last or toxic
stages. "As a result, they believed abused rights and position themselves
the worst in terms of quantity and quality of medical services - allowed to do
injection - by "agreement" - not to the medical worker - in the form - intravenous
injections - sister of Markovo Galina - Lyudmila Nanta, Sylvia Arkhip and
tried to deceive and hide her involvement in the murder - already on
The next day is the police - which is displayed in the resolution - which, although
was not compiled on the state. language - but passed with signatures and stamp and
internal: printing has become available to the examinations of an international organization.
Thus we continue with the conclusion:
In the results of the last tomogram dated March 14, 2022, there was no mention
about heart failure.
Heart failure is a typical symptom of cancer, but the result is not
Confirm it.
Therefore, it was necessary to find out whether the suspects in the death paid for
Computer tomography with the intention of winning a case against the victim.
The forensic pathologist who performed the "re-autopsy" was paid
to tighten the case and introduce the investigation and most importantly inevitably the following step
The court is misleading, saying that the cause of death was passive smoking,
Despite the fact that the victim did not pass the test for its presence and caused by this
allegedly a vascular disease - which was immediately introduced “retroactively” Arkhip
Sylvia - who did not return the medical card until the end of the investigation - but kept
card of the deceased at home, Later, without risking giving it away to the archive, "writing it off to
son and Assignee as trying to - hide heart disease -
Markova. Thus, having hidden that at the “request” of Lyudmila Nantoy -
I rewritten - the diagnosis of toxic intervention is orally from 01.01.2022 - from
words of Markova Galina - anamnesis and describing: “mushrooms” allegedly eaten
Houses. But the previous description was of acute pain after leaving
sisters and husband at: yo. Izmailovskaya 86/1 sq. 222 or Miron Kostin 13/3
sq. 64.
Or a direct description of the failed - the attempt of her sister with her husband because
testimony that proved the involvement of the district police officer Arkhip with the main
suspects. It was it who tried to get it - but the judge refused to call
witnesses - without the conclusions of all the examinations since it was not .... provided to him
Prosecutor - Gureev - at the same time participating in the reasons investigating
special confiscation according to the appointed Constitutional Court and
Venice Commission of two rehabilitations. Rehabilitation became the reason
appoint two Judges - one Prosecutor Gureev. And in the key case in the third
Once the same prosecutor. Judge A. Negru refused to support the allocation of Gureev -
since he refused rehabilitation and release Macchaet from PU - 4, like not
jurisdictional to the Debtor based on rehabilitation status. It was Gureev’s participation, his
obsessive deceptions, when instead of those appointed by the Court and Judges about two
for the rehabilitation of other Prosecutors - to “replace” Gureyev. What is no longer
“relapse”, and already articles 33 and 51 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Republic of Moldova and the circumstances of Judge A. Negru.
against Markov and Markova and grandson and son - was opposed - son of Oazu
Nantoy - Sergey. Also, - passing off Alexey as Macheret - Nanta Lyudmila and
not yet a certificate, but a passport stolen from his sister and his father and Passport
A macheret and a certificate in his name - but with a photograph of his son Nantoy. It is for this reason
reason - Gureev was recalled following a complaint to a higher Prosecutor about not
legal prosecution of Gureev, rehabilitated Macheret and his mother
who was not knowing him and was appointed in the "order" of the investigation and was withdrawn
So far, superior Prosecutor Bratunov has withdrawn from the investigation of the Macheret Case
- after Macheret presented evidence that Codreanu had stated before him
Self -settling as a judge, Gennady Morozan, who has senior in the case of a judge
in favor of Gureev, who hid the recusal of his colleague and participated in his place and
persuaded another prosecutor Ivanov to make his participation constant in
the third judge for rehabilitation ..
Prosecutor Bratunov received a written request to exhume the body
Markova Galina - having conducted her own investigation into unexplained delays
associated with the analysis of intravital tissue samples taken immediately after
attempts on Markov in January 2022 visiting Nanta and two
computer thermograms after the attempt only crippled but not
who killed Markova on 01/09/2022 and after two in oncology
the institute where it was expected that the temperature has shot down - according to a false diagnosis
They tried to kill her - but Markova survives. Then, having deceived her and her son, they put her in
the fourth hospital and there they only report about the allegedly discovered “cancer”. But
Markova informs Macheret - who has realized what and why she is being killed - that this is not
"Hospital" and the hospice. Markova - still does not believe and asks his son to pick her up and
He asks his son who hides that he supposedly “does not know about cancer” - so that he takes
The third city hospital: "Glass". And when he doesn’t understand that the "glass". AND
having taken what he was looking for - takes the histology results after the first attempt
- taking them shows written conclusions from 01.01.2022 and 09.01.2022
Having presented which Markov who had not released before and after that Markov
They write out as the "hospital" or the hospice established that Markova is not sick
"cancer" All these circumstances where TO is confused, where TO were simply
presented to Judge Viktor Ratsa But he refused to accept
requests to call witnesses.
Moreover, the judge had to challenge the judge’s decision to close
criminal case without following proper procedures and use
a poor-quality medical examination report was actually not allowed
consider the case by an impartial Arbitration Court. This is a clear violation
the constitutional rights of the accused themselves. The law is clear: expert opinion
It must be available to the accused and the victim. If this is not done
the accused has the right to reimbursement of all money spent on imprisonment
Against him, all the more, “voluntarily” paying OAZ Nanta. Expert
The conclusion also served as the basis for filing a claim against the victims
Having caused enforcement proceedings in terms of payment of medical
Expertise. Thus, against the property, Macchais and Oleinik -
confiscated "difference" from 25,000 euros and confiscated 17,000 euros and to
hide regressive claims - designed in the form of an auction; Returning "difference"
Having issued it in the form of a "transaction" for the sale of an apartment on Salkinelor Street and
interpolating the accounts of Macheret and Oleinik - declaring them Debtors - carried out
fictitious "confiscation" with the participation of the police, Botanica sector - got away from
obligations to declare your taxes. After all, it is the negotiations on this
apartment and making a fictitious debtor Macchaet - telephone campaign
The Mold -Cherisel and hurried and made her move. Thus determining the organized crime scheme -
Corruption by names: Moldovkombank - Bailiffs, Infocus,
Police and Moldchel.
Maces in the order of denunciation of crimes of the first degree
From: puledura puledura <{e${2983 @outlook.com>
Sent: Friday, May 3, 2024 3:19 pm
To whom: Cacq Justice.md <cap@justice.md>
Theme: FWD: Call PO Victor Răţoi
Download Outlook for iOS
Or: Alexei Macheret <arhiv240@gmail.com>
Posted: Friday, May 3, 2024 3:15:23 PM
Кому: Puledura Puledura <Test2983 @Outlook.com>
Theme: Call Po Victor Răţoi
Sent from iPhone