=== Перевод (ru ➜ en) ===
A/47/444
Russian
Page 4
Application
Compete ya / gavage and avila Target a
Secretary General I will help you to resolve
Disputes Che M X s
The reasons for
1. The United Nations has a special role in maintaining peace and
security. The Charter of the United Nations recognizes permission
international disputes "peaceful means, in accordance with the principles
justice and international law" as the main purpose of the Organization
United Nations and as the main means to maintain
international world and security. The value of the peaceful resolution of disputes
has been repeatedly emphasized in various legal documents of the Organization
United Nations, including the Declaration of Principles of International Law,
concerning friendly relations and cooperation between states in
in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations of October 24, 1970,
and the Manila Declaration for the Peaceful Settlement of International Disputes of November 15
1982. In the Manila Declaration, the General Assembly reiterated that
that states should be encouraged to resolve disputes based on use in
to the fullest extent of the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations, including
Regulations regarding the peaceful resolution of disputes. Assembly also noted
that appeal to judicial settlement of legal disputes, in
in particular, appeal to the International Court should not be considered as
unfriendly act in relations between states.
2. The Court is the main judicial organ of the United Nations.
Its decisions represent the most authoritative interpretation of the rules
international law. As follows from paragraph 3 of Article 36 of the Charter, the court is
also the main body for the settlement of disputes of a legal nature between
states. Therefore, the General Secretary as the main administrative
The official of the organization is of special responsibility for the deed
judicial resolution of disputes through the Court.
3. Disputes of a legal nature may arise in various parts of the world in
connections to a wide range of problems. There are times when the relevant parties
ready to strive to resolve their disputes through an international court, but not
They can do this due to the lack of legal knowledge or funds. Also
There may be cases where the parties are unable to implement the Court's decision on
I The same reasons. BO of all such cases, the presence of financial resources will be
| To promote a peaceful resolution of disputes.
| 4. Expenses that may arise during the proceedings in the international
I | Court, are a factor that in some cases may affect the decision
states to go to court. With arbitration proceedings
{| AN PAY OF Arbitrators, as well as the content of arbitration (for example, expenses
I | for secretariats, etc.). Administrative expenses of the court
Paid by the organization of the United Nation. However, the same as in the case of
| arbitration, the parties must pay the costs of agents, legal advisers,
i
Jace
A/47/444
Russian
Page 5
experts and witnesses, as well as the preparation of memorandums, counter -moradums and
etc. The total amount could be significant. In other words, the amount of expenses
may play a role in decision making regarding
the feasibility of transferring the dispute to the international court. That's why
The provision of financial assistance would be useful for states that do not have
necessary funds.
5. The United Nations has extensive experience in providing
| assistance to countries for their industrial and economic development, This experience
could be used to assist states in obtaining
necessary legal advice to facilitate dispute resolution.
spruce and a target. NDA
6. The real target fund (below is the "Fund") is established by the General
secretary in accordance with the financial provisions and rules of organization
United Nations. The purpose of the fund is to provide, in accordance with
conditions and provisions defined in this document, financial
assistance to states to cover expenses incurred in connection with:
a) any dispute submitted to the International Court of Justice for consideration
a special agreement, or b) the execution of a court decision arising from
such a special agreement
Contributions to the fund
7. General Secretary invites states, intergovernmental
organizations, national institutions and non-governmental organizations, and
also individuals and legal entities to make voluntary financial contributions to
Fund.
Applications for financial assistance
8. An application for financial assistance from the Foundation can be submitted
any state - a member of the United Nations, any
a state party to the Statute of the International Court of Justice or a state not
i being a party that complies with the provisions of Council resolution 9 (1946)
Security and which concluded a special agreement for the purpose of transferring
specific dispute to the International Court of Justice for a decision. To the application
attached:
OR he
a) a copy of the said special agreement;
b) an itemized statement of expected expenses for which
The Foundation is requesting financial assistance;
that the requesting state will represent
indicating the detailed data on expenses,
amounts that must be certified
| c) an obligation to
I final statement of accounts with
carried out at the expense of approved
The revisor acceptable for the United Nation.
fo...
A/47/444
Russian
Page 6
Institution of a group of experts
9. In connection with the request for financial assistance, the general secretary will
to establish a group of experts consisting of three people using a high
judicial and moral reputation. The task of the group is to consider the application
based on paragraph 8 above, recommendations to the Secretary General on the size
financial assistance that should be provided, and types of expenses in
in relation to which such assistance can be used (for example, training
memorandums, counter -moradums and answers); agents fees, legal advisers,
lawyers, experts or witnesses; fees for conducting legal
research; Rasjodov related to the conduct of oral proceedings
(for example, translation into languages ​​is different than English and French, or from these
languages); expenses for the preparation of technical materials (for example,
reproduction of cartographic evidence); and costs associated with
execution of the Court's decision (for example, border demarcation).
10. The work of the group of experts is carried out in a strict
privacy.
11. When considering the application, a group of experts is guided exclusively
the financial needs of the requesting state and the availability of financial
funds,
12. Travel expenses and per diem are paid to members of the group of experts at the expense of
Fonda.
Providing assistance
13. The Secretary General provides financial assistance from the Fund for
The basis for the assessment and recommendations of the expert group. Payments are made by software
presentation of accounts confirming the actual expenses regarding the approved
sums
Application of the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations
14. The Office of the Target Fund is carried out in accordance with financial
regulations and rules of the United Nations. Apply to the Fund
audit procedures provided for therein.
Reporting
15. The General Assembly will submit an annual report on
activities of the fund.
Institution-performer
16. The implementing agency for the Trust Fund is the Office for
legal issues that will provide services necessary for
activities of the fund.
Revision
17. General Secretary can reconsider the foregoing if this
circumstances will require.