=== Перевод (ru ➜ en) ===
59
AnAlysis And Forec A sting. i M e M o Journal , 2019, no. 3
World P olitics MOLDOVA’S EUROPEAN WAY:
Illusions and reality
© 2019 V. in A
SILYEV
Vasiliev Viktor Ivanovich, Doctor of Political Sciences, Leading Researcher
Sectors of the political problems of European integration of the European political research department. National Research Institute of the World Economy and International Relations named after E.M. Primakova RAS, RF, 117997 Moscow, Trade Union St., 23 (
Vvi-1947@
yandex.ru ).
Vasiliev V.I. The European path of Moldova: Illusions and reality.
Analysis and forecast. IMEMO RAS Magazine, 2019, No. 3, p. 59-72. DOI: 10.20542/Afij-2019-3-59-72.
Two: 10.20542/AFIJ-2019-3-59-72
UDC: (430)+(478): 323+327
The article was received by the editor on December 3, 2019.
The article is devoted to the influence of Germany, as well as the European Union, the USA and Russia on
Transformation of the Republic of Moldova in the context of integration processes in Europe
and in the post-Soviet space. The author builds the research on the basis of systemic
historical approach, and also uses the method of deep interviews that
personally with German politicians and experts. According to the author, the analysis of the causes
Chisinau failures in reform indicates the mistakes of Berlin, Brussels,
Washington and Moscow related to the underestimation of the Moldavian oligarchic circles,
captured key posts in state structures. With the support
RF, EU and the United States, the parliamentary majority of Moldova managed to create a unique
Government coalition from the party of socialists and the right bloc Akum. Compromise
opened opportunities for mutually beneficial cooperation of the republic with the Russian Federation, EAEU, EU,
USA. However, the ambitions of partners in the government coalition led to her collapse and
election of a new cabinet of ministers.
CHECH WORDS: CIS, Russia, Republic of Moldova, Germany, European Union,
“Eastern Partnership”, EAEU, European integration, NATO.
Tectonic shifts in European and world politics could not help but touch
and countries in the post -Soviet space. Attempts by heads of the former states
In the Soviet Union, reforms in the spheres of politics, economics, education, the environment, and government administration have not yet brought noticeable results. There are quite a lot of reasons. For example, Chisinau did not take advantage of the favorable opportunities for integration within the CIS, giving preference to the European vector of foreign policy in the period from 2009 to 2016. Germany, the European Union, and the United States, having provided real support to the renewal processes, apparently for a long time did not notice the concentration of power in the hands of the oligarchic circles of the Republic of Moldova (RM) and the deterioration in the living standards of its citizens.
The relevance of the topic is that on the Moldavian example you can trace trends
the development of some CIS countries, whose leaders are in acute contradiction with the interests and expectations of residents. The elites were not able to creatively and reasonably use the potential of both the CIS and the European Union.
The author proceeds from the fact that research on the topic of relations between Germany and the Republic
Moldova practically no. Novelty is predetermined by its relevance from the point of view
60
Analysis and forecast.  The magazine and the MAMM RA, 2019, No. 3 MIROILOVE POLICARISE of factors that affect transformational processes in the RM. Among
The tasks set by the author, an attempt to predict the evolution of the relationship between Berlin -Chisinau, on the one hand, and show potential advantages for Moldova in its multi -vector policy, including in the Russian direction. One of the goals is to partially replenish the gaps available in scientific work on the problems of German-Moldavian relations, their roles and places in the dialogue between Moscow,
Chisinau, Berlin and Brussels.
Germany recognized the Republic of Moldova in 1991, diplomatic relations with it
were installed in April 1992. RM became the first state from the former USSR, which
It was admitted to the European Council in 1995. An important milestone in relations between the European Union and RM was the signing in 1994 of the “Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation” (ATP). Moldova became the third after the Russian Federation and Ukraine by the state that signed such a document. Among the priority areas of the foreign policy of Berlin in the post -Soviet space - to assist Chisinau in rapprochement with the EU [1].
Berlin constantly emphasized that he pursues a policy on Chisinau
The basis of the values ​​and interests of the European Union, provides assistance in the cooperation of Moldova with the EU, NATO, European and international financial structures. The Embassy of Germany in Chisinau from the mid-1990s and early 2000s initiated numerous projects for the provision of humanitarian aid, both within the framework of bilateral contacts and through the EU. The Germans constantly identified the unique geographical position of the RM, which could play the role of the bridge between the West and the East, the CIS and the EU. Berlin encouraged the ambitions of Moldovan elites in the sense that the republic, having solid potential in the agro -industrial complex, is capable of producing environmentally friendly products for European consumers at proper prices. The German side promised to help Chisinau to use the Moldavian food niche of vegetables and fruits, as well as wine-cony products in the markets of Germany and other European countries [2, SS. 160-163].
On all lines, Berlin consistently accompanied the rapprochement of Chisinau with
Brussels. Moldova, occupying a significant place in the political agenda of Germany, was for some time an example for countries - participants in the "eastern partnership"
1. Germans
They were satisfied with the good and coordinated work of the executive and legislative authorities, which achieved considerable progress in the reform of the law. The German Ministry of Internal Affairs encouraged the liberalization of the visa regime with the prospect of its effective implementation, emphasized a good level of cooperation between the two countries in the fields of ensuring domestic security and the rule of law. Business circles of Germany encouraged Chisinau
judgments about the favorable investment market, plans of a number of German companies
Invest in the Moldavian economy. For its part, the leadership of the RM, regardless of political and ideological views, has always sought to consolidate relations with Germany and the EU as a whole in the hope of solid financial support.
If the Chancellor of Germany (since 2005) and now the former chairman of the CDS A. Merkel
She actively interacted with the Prime Ministers of the RM V. Filat (2009–2013) and Yu. Link (2013–2015), the SDPG supported the Democratic Party of Moldova (DPM). The representative of the DPM leadership took part in the Congress of Social Democrats in Berlin in December 2015. During the years of the prime minister of Yu. Lyanke, a special representative of Germany in the rank of senior adviser to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Moldova, a security expert in Europe,
The Moldavian government in the issues of German-Moldavian relations in
areas of modernization of public administration, reform of the judicial system, law enforcement agencies.
Contacts through civil societies of Germany and RM were aimed at consolidating
pro -European sentiments, to promote the development of democracy, the rule of law.
1 project “Eastern Partnership” was initiated by Poland and Sweden, approved by the European Council in
2009 he is aimed at activating the rapprochement of Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine
With the European Union in the political and economic spheres. Berlin consistently advocates the active involvement of RM in the processes of partial integration with the EU in the framework of the Eastern Partnership.
61
AnAlysis And Forec A sting. i M e M o Journal , 2019, no. 3
World P Olitics Soluenus of the Power of the pro -European parties in 2009 at the initiative of the Bundestag deputies
The “German-Moldovan Forum” was created from the CDU and SPD with the participation of politicians, diplomats, businessmen, and civil society activists [3]. On the basis of Moldova’s Association Agreement with the EU, the “EU-Moldova Civil Society Platform” launched its work in order to monitor by its activists the implementation of the document on the rapprochement of the republic with Brussels. A notable platform was the “EU-Moldova Forum” with the participation of politicians and scientists.
As part of his second meeting in Berlin in 2012, the EU Commissioner on Expansion
And the good neighborliness of the EU S. Fule described the RM as the most reliable, diligent student, since the republic carried out reforms quickly and carefully. Thus, the country confirmed its leadership among the countries of the Eastern Partnership project. Secretary of the Foreign Ministry of the Federal Republic of Germany E. Hubert presented a “road map” to liberalize the visa regime, modernize the economy, the fight against corruption, and the representative of the Ministry of Economic Cooperation of the Federal Republic of Germany. Bölhof announced the readiness of Berlin to significantly increase financial assistance to Chisinau [4].
Currently, the Institute of European Policies and Reforms of the Republic of Moldova together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany
Preparing examinations on the issues of associated membership of the country with the EU. Along the line of German
Conrad Adenauer Foundation organize thematic measures about the role and place
Political parties in the development of democratic institutions, methods of combating corruption, risks of ligaments of oligarchs with government and legislative structures. The fund is also divided by experience in the field of German memory and research of the dictatorship in the GDR.
Chisinau events April 7, 2009
A turning point in the development of the statehood of the Republic of Moldova was a coup
In Chisinau on April 7, 2009, the occasion was the results of the parliamentary elections, in which the country's communists, led by the then President of the Republic of Moldova V. Voronin, once again won. Opposition forces questioned the legitimacy of votum voters and used the power method of seizing power. According to the “German wave”, opponents of the storm regime captured the buildings of the highest legislative body
countries. Basically, minors and youth tripled the real pogrom, defeated
Furniture and computers, set fire to administrative buildings. The “peaceful” demonstrators chanted the slogans: “Freedom, Down with the Communists, we are part of Europe!” , burned the flags of local communists and the former USSR, the flags of the EU and Romania were posted on the buildings. While the opposition accused V. Voronin of falsification of the elections, the then head of state evaluated events as a coup d'etat, warned about the danger of destabilizing the situation in the country, bloodshed, and insisted on the version of a well -organized and paid action [5]. Berlin called the attack on the administrative buildings of representative and executive branches an internal affair of the sovereign state, called both sides to the peaceful overcoming of problems that have arisen. The Germans are always attentive to violations of human rights this time were restrained, correct, correct
The theses about the main movement of the republic along the European path were repeated. In 2009
German politicians and experts in private conversations tried to convince the author of this article of the desire and abilities of new Moldovan elites, of course, with the support of Berlin and Brussels, after 10 years, that is, by 2019, to transform a backward state into a prosperous with high European standards of life.
In this optimistic philosophy of Russia, the role of the provider of natural
gas, as well as the market for the Moldavian agricultural products. At the same time, Moscow was supposed to show restraint, not to intervene in the internal affairs of the sovereign country, confidently walking along the European path. The plots associated with the issuance of the Republic of Moldova to citizens, primarily in the public service, passports
Romania, as well as with bursts of Romanization in socio-political life
an independent state, German colleagues refuse to comment without calling the reasons
2.
2 interviews of the author with representatives of the SDPG, CDS and the Fund. Conrad Adenauer.
62
Analysis and forecast.  Journal and Maram about RA, 2019, No. 3 MIRO VIA Tikas by coming to power in 2009 of the pro-European government, headed by the premiere
Minister V. Filat from the Liberal Democratic Party of Moldova (LDPM) Berlin
He began the active phase of political, financial, organizational support of reforms in the RM. During the visit to Chisinau in August 2012, Chancellor A. Merkel spoke of the successful development of the Republic of Moldova, advising her residents to rejoice at the processes of modernization at the government “alliance for European integration”. However,
Despite the powerful support of the government of V. Filat from Berlin and Brussels,
The country more and more covered the system crisis. From the point of view of German and Moldovan experts, the ruling elites formed mainly from business representatives influenced the slipping of transformation processes; the lack of civil society in the civilian society to influence the government apparatus; EU political softness in relation to government elites of the RM.
In 2015, experts alarmed about creeping corruption, encouraged
It was precisely those parties, whose leaders called their organizations pro -European political associations. Even then, German analysts recognized the fallacy of their ideas about the Republic of Moldova as an exemplary student, whose elite is all
They plunged deeper into corruption, took care more about personal enrichment, while
Society was split. As a result, for citizens of the Republic of Moldova, a course on partial integration in the EU was increasingly associated with the power of the oligarchs and bribery, in society, disappointment grew in the political timidity of the European Union, which did not notice the processes of decomposition of the country's oligarchic elite. Formation in January 2016 of the Government
P. Philip, the protege of the oligarch V. Plahotnyuk (at night, in a secret format with violation of the regulations), caused a massive protest performance by the country's residents, which was organized by the civilian platform “Dignity and Pravda” with the support of the Party of Socialists of the Republic of Moldova (PSRM).
The mood of citizens began to change noticeably, nostalgia for the Soviet
Union. According to sociological surveys conducted in December 2018, 47.1% of residents of the republic positively evaluated the communist regime (until 1990), 58.6% believed that the collapse of the Union led to negative consequences for Moldova; At a possible referendum on the return of RM to the USSR, 40% of the population would vote “for”. It is noteworthy that not only the older people were disappointed in the country, but also the youth, part of which advocate a return to the Soviet past. In general, almost every second respondent regrets the collapse of the USSR, more than half of the population believes that the republic is in the wrong direction. The most painful sources of anxiety were poverty, unemployment, high prices [6].
These reasons explain the victory in the presidential election in 2016 by I. Dodon
From the Party of Socialists, as well as the number of nostalgiars in the USSR in 2019: according to some surveys, 52% of respondents already regret the collapse of the country. German commentators complain that in these conditions all the attempts of the United States and the EU to support the Republic of Moldova on the pro -European path fail, although the RM for eight years (2009-2017) received more than 3 billion euros of loans and target financial assistance from the West [7]. According to German experts, half of financial support settled in criminal structures [8].
Independent state or part of the "Great Romania"?
Discussions about the future of the country, the confrontation between the president, the government,
The ruling parties in parliament testify to the contradictory approach of Chisinau to the role of the USA, EU, NATO and the Russian Federation.
According to a number of media outlets, in 2013 the then president of the Republic N. Timoft
(2012–2016) At a meeting with US Secretary of State J. Kerry in the Moldavian capital, he announced
the need for American support to counteract pressure from the Russian Federation.
Moscow allegedly supports not only Tiraspol, but also other anti -Western pro -Russian forces in Moldova. The statement of the head of state was so scandalous that in the situation
63
AnAlysis And Forec A sting. i M e M o Journal , 2019, no. 3
World P Olitics was forced to intervene the head of the country's parliament I. Korman. He publicly accused
N. Timofti in an irresponsible attitude to the foreign policy of Chisinau.
Experts considered the statement of the then head of state to be provocative.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of the Republic of Moldova N. German. In 2013, in an interview with the Romanian Digi24 channel, she said: “The authorities and the peoples of Moldova and the people
Romania is separated only by the river Prut. We have the same values, the same language, the same story,
But two different states, one of which is already in the EU and NATO, and now we are making maximum efforts in order to bring Moldova to this space of common values, where we will all be together ”[9].
According to the Romanian political scientist K. Gushe, which he made in the summer of 2018, a number
The US research centers, with the support of the White House, the State Department of the United States, CIA, and the FBI, allegedly develop the idea of ​​creating a unified US Embassy in the future for Romania and Moldova in Bucharest, and there should be a diplomatic mission with the powers of the consulate. Washington focuses, in particular, in the Romanian language, which, in his opinion, unites two states [10].
The German side monitors the mood of citizens of the Republic of Moldova
and Romania in relation to the issue of the possible reunification of the two states. According to German experts, only 27% of the Romanians consider it necessary or very necessary to restore the general political, economic and cultural space of the two countries. For two decades, the Proruminsky forces of the Republic of Moldova could not motivate citizens of the republic to converge with Romania, their electoral potential was kept at 10%. In connection with the deterioration of the socio-economic situation, the pendulum of sympathy swayed towards Romania, which, despite the high level of poverty, crime and corruption, became attractive to Moldovan.
Polls in 2017 revealed that the inclusion of the Republic of Moldova in Romania
22% were already supported, although 66% of respondents at a possible referendum on this issue would reject the dissolution of the country in another state. According to German experts, since the beginning of the transformations in the Republic of Moldova, about 10% considered the inclusion of the country in Romania, among the projection parties. At the same time, 30% of the population with pro -European views, supporters of the recognition of linguistic and cultural kinship with Romania, restrainedly related to a possible reunion or generally rejected it. The Moldavian camp of the right -centric forces believe that the accentuation of rapprochement between the two states will not bring benefits to Chisinau [11]. Discussions about reunion did not subside even after the creation of a new government led by
M. Sandu. The comments of Prime Minister Sandu came down to the fact that such an important question
It can be resolved only within the framework of the referendum.
Prochuropeian parties consistently promote the ideas of rapprochement of RM not only with
EU, but also with NATO. At a press conference in Brussels on October 23, 2017 with the participation of the General
Secretary of NATO J. Stoltenberg and Moldavian Prime Minister P. Philip announced the upcoming opening in Chisinau at the request of the Republic of the NATO information bureau. According to the head of the organization of the North Atlantic Treaty, the work of the bureau is organized according to the scheme of similar structures in Moscow, Kyiv, Tbilisi. At the same time
J. Stoltenberg emphasized the choice of Moldova in favor of the neutral status, to which the headquarters of the Alliance is respected. For his part, P. Philip announced the desire of the Republic of Moldova to continue the political dialogue with Nato as part of the program
"Partnership in the name of the world." He took the reproaches of critics of such cooperation with the thesis,
that the country's neutrality does not mean isolation. On December 8, 2017, on the occasion of the opening of the NATO Information Bureau, Prime Minister P. Philip drew attention to the importance of the structure as a diplomatic mission, whose tasks include informing citizens of the republic about the programs and projects of the transatlantic bloc that are being implemented on the territory of the Republic of Moldova. At the same time, he stated that the country’s rapprochement with NATO does not dilute the constitutional provision on the neutral status of the republic [12].
64
Analysis and forecast.  Magazine and MAMM RAN, 2019, No. 3 MIRO TIKAPREMER-minister of Moldova P. Philip and deputy Secretary General of NATO Rose ghetthemuller
said at the opening ceremony of the NATO information bureau in Chisinau that the new
The structure will contribute to the process of reform, strengthen the defense sector and the formation of the modern army of the country, ensure cybernetic security, the completion of the project to destroy overdue ammunition, pesticides with an expired shelf life. Both politicians assured that the Republic of Moldova is guided
principles of neutrality, which, however, does not mean isolation from international
Communities [12].
Expected against the opening of a representative office of NATO in the country
President of the Republic of Moldova I. Dodon spoke out, seeing in the strengthening of contacts between Chisinau and the alliance an additional irritant and an obstacle to the settlement of the Transnistrian conflict [13]. The head of state with limited powers was unable to disavow the decision of the government and parliament, which, with a majority of pro-European parties, supported plans to strengthen Chisinau’s ties with this military-political bloc.
In the center of discussion is the neutral status of RM. In 2017, representatives of Moldavian
The Ministry of Defense, the so -called pro -European parties have repeatedly stated that neutrality has turned into a blackmail tool from Russia to maintain its influence on the republic. Meanwhile, the Republic of Moldova has long been cooperating with NATO. In 1994, the framework document of the program “Partnership for the Peace” was signed, in
2006 approved an individual action plan between NATO and RM, in 2007 the Center for Information and Documentation of NATO was opened in Chisinau with the tasks to promote a positive image of the alliance [14]. Since 2016, joint exercises of the US military and RM, designed for four years have been conducted in the country. Moldova sent its military personnel to participate in the peacekeeping forces of NATO, for example, since February 2014, they have been involved in KFOR operations, conducted under the leadership of NATO in Kosovo, which, according to part of Moldovan experts, does not violate the neutral status of the republic. By polls
2018, 54% of respondents reject the entry of the Republic of Moldova into NATO, but
22% are inclined to support the unification of the country with Romania [15].
June 2019 - “Small” Yalta?
The trigger for a radical change in the situation in the Republic of Moldova was elections
In February 2019, in the parliament, according to which the government of the parliamentary majority with the participation of the Party of Socialists of the Republic of Moldova and the Right Bloc Akum was formed. The ACUM Platforma Da Si PAS election block, headed by M. Sandu, was created in December 2018. From the pro -European parties to participate in the parliamentary elections on February 24, 2019, the Alliance included the political party “Dignity and PPDP” (PPDP) led by the head of
A. Nastose and Party “Account and Solidarity” (PDS) in the head from M. Sando.
The government created on the basis of a compromise, headed by M. Sandu, said
On the determination of deoligarchization and reorganization of the state management system. The formation of the Cabinet of Ministers took place under the pressure of the current government led by P. Philip. The then leader of the Democratic Party of Moldova V. Plakhotnyuk in early June 2019, through the Constitutional Court of the Republic, the decision to remove I. Dodon from the post of President, put the legitimacy of the premierness of M. Sandu and appointed the acting Heads of Cabinet P. Philip. For the first time in the history of the New Moldova, three external political actors - the USA, the EU and the Russian Federation - from the agreed positions expressed support to the legitimate government M. Sandu.
As the Moldovan, German and other foreign experts emphasized, Washington,
Brussels and Moscow played a decisive role in overcoming an acute internal political crisis. Disputes in the Moldovan media and on television testified to the desire of the vast majority of citizens of the republic to get rid of the criminal oligarchy, about the split of society into supporters of European integration, on the one hand, and rapprochement with Russia, on the other, as well as a positive assessment of politicians, experts and society regarding the participation of the United States, the EU and the Russian Federation in resolving the political and socio-economic crisis in the Republic of Republic of Public.
65
AnAlysis And Forec A sting. i M e M o Journal , 2019, no. 3
World p oolitics at the same time sounded diametrically opposite opinions about the emergence
dangerous dual power. Some experts compared the events with a putsch in Moscow
In August 1991, others frightened the possible “Maidan” with the Moldavian color, others did not hide the joys about the lack of “Cherry Revolution” (June in Moldova - a month of gathering and implementing these berries). The uniqueness and paradox of the situation determined the procedure for changing power, the expulsion of the oligarchs from the power structures, the participation of the USA, the EU and the Russian Federation
In negotiations with the leaders of key political forces, the desire and readiness of subjects
political process in the Republic of Moldova to the evolutionary transformation of society and the state. The coalition of socialists and the right bloc, despite the skeptical forecasts of analysts, demonstrated coordinated interaction for several months. But the ambitions of the government coalition participants led to its collapse and the creation of a new cabinet of ministers. On November 14, 2019, the new government headed by I. Chicu received a vote of confidence in the national parliament.
The background of key events is important. It is far from accidental coincidence
The pro -European alliance to power in 2009 with the activation of the west efforts to include the Republic of Moldova in the orbit of the influence of NATO and the EU. The European Union insisted on a forced
the nature of partial integration with the EU with promises to turn RM into a exemplary country
in the post -Soviet space. As the anti -Russian rhetoric, financial flows from the EU and the USA expanded to support the “democratic” processes, which at one of the stages, was expanded by the Democratic Party of Moldova and the oligarch.
V. Plakhotnyuk. With a silent consent, possibly the direct support of the West, his team usurped power by appointing their proteges to key posts in state structures, law enforcement agencies, the Constitutional Court, whose members, by the way, had Romanian passports. By the way, neither Berlin nor Brussels were outraged by the distribution of Romania passports in the sovereign state.
Privatization of power structures, as some Moldavian experts write,
It was accompanied by a noticeable impoverishment of the population - in 2015, out of 3 million inhabitants of the country, almost 1 million lived and worked abroad, 700 thousand of them in Russia [16]. Silence in the West was interrupted in 2015 by the Secretary General of the Council of Europe T. Jagund, warning of the danger to the RM, which is located on the edge of the abyss due to corruption and omnipotence of the oligarchs. He stated the country's split into two parts - one looks at Brussels, the other at Moscow, but both camps are united by indignation about corrupt elites. The Secretary of General of the Council of Europe called the country the “captured state”, recommended Chisinau resolutely to fight corruption and strengthen control over the authorities, warning that the crisis in neighboring Ukraine began with a deep disappointment in political institutions. For six years of being in power of the pro -European forces - from 2009 to 2015. - It was made extremely little for the development of the country's economy, its institutions. Corruption still remained
The norm, and the state was in the hands of the oligarchs. Taking into account the Transnistrian conflict
T. Jagland warned about the possible emergence of another military outbreak [17].
However, over time, the influence of Plahotniuk did not decrease, the outflow of the population
continued. The authorities clearly abused slogans about the European path of the RM, rhetoric about the Western vector of politics. The United States and the EU, avoiding public criticism of Chisinau, sometimes reproached the tops of the republic in the absence of political will, the insufficiency of reforms, but continued financial injections into the state budget of the republic. As German experts wrote in 2018, no one knew in the EU at what goals the money of Western taxpayers was spent on. This was the conclusion that “the European Union supported the Moldova’s corrupted system on their afloat instead of a decisive struggle against this evil” [18].
It is extremely doubtful that in Berlin, Brussels and Washington did not know anything about the dominance
Corruption in the Republic of Moldova and corruption from the Democratic Party. Apparently, in the USA and the EU, the oligarchs about the European choice of the country, and the criticism of the Moscow policy, which was attributed to the plans of the occupation of the republic, corresponded to the strategic interests of the United States and the EU. Therefore, financial injections into the Chisinau did not stop, and Western mentors declared their solidarity with the Moldovan authorities in countering the “Russian threat”. The German government as a whole continued to maintain the regimen regime, but to the new Cabinet of Ministers of Germany
66
Analysis and forecast.  The magazine and the MAMM RAN, 2019, No. 3Miro Vyai Tikastali to handle the parliamentary factions of the opposition parties in the Bundestag.
They demanded a clear report on the approaches of Berlin to what was happening in the RM, reducing the financing of Chisinau, clear dependence of further trenches and loans on the results of reforms.
The results of the Moldovan parliamentary elections in February 2019 revealed the real
balance of power. Politicians who took into account the sentiments of citizens soberly assessed the chance of “liberating the country” from the oligarchic dictatorship. The socialists and the right bloc were united by one goal - the expulsion of the oligarchs from power. The task made it possible to find a compromise, without which the socio-economic and cultural development of the country is impossible. Moldovan society has revived. The ousting of oligarchs from power structures by constitutional means cannot be called a “cherry revolution”; it is a reasonable compromise, perhaps a tactical one. As is known, the Russian Federation, the EU and the United States contributed to the change of power within the framework of the Constitution, supporting a unique coalition with the participation of socialists and the right bloc. Berlin welcomed the cooperation of the Russian Federation, the EU and the United States in overcoming the government and political crises, and expressed hope for the possible use of the algorithm to resolve the Ukrainian conflict. Although the Germans avoid saying the word “Yalta” out loud,
No less, they value an active constructive connection of Moscow to solving problems
Republic of Moldova.
Here Illusy K pragmatism
Building statehood in the Republic of Moldova, formulation and implementation
Its foreign policy guidelines indicate a contradictory prolonged process. No one undertook to give forecasts regarding the political longevity of the rare government configuration of allies with diametrically opposite worldviews, while at the same time the new RM authorities took into account the mood of the country's residents, 80% of which supported the majority coalition.
In June 2019, the chairman of the Parliament of Moldova Z. Greek
A visit to Moscow met with the Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation
D. Medvedev, chairmen of the Federation Council and the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation V. Matvienko, V. Volodin. She emphasized the role of the Russian Federation, the EU and the United States in resolving the political crisis in the country, the political wisdom of the Party of Socialists and the Bloc Akum when reached a consensus for the interests of the vast majority of residents, the salvation of the republic from the criminal regime. According to her estimates, this unique situation could serve as a vivid example of a compromise between different forces both at the regional and international levels.
The visits of M. Sandu to Brussels, where she met with
Representatives of the EU and NATO, as well as to Berlin at the invitation of Chancellor A. Merkel. The statement of the German chancellor in the framework of this visit about the absence of objective ideas about the depth of the political crisis, the level of corruption with the participation of the highest echelons of power in Moldova indirectly testified to either the weak work of German diplomacy, or the conscious ignorance of the actions of the political forces of the RM, calling themselves pro -European [19].
Although Berlin restrainedly reacted to Prime Minister M. Sandu about desire
countries join the EU after modernization, international structures were ready to defrost the tranche of financial assistance, the receipt of which was suspended
Due to the systemic crisis in the RM. There are prerequisites for supporting Chisinau. IN
tense days of reformatting the Moldovan government M. Sandu The European Union outlined the positive dynamics of rapprochement between Chisinau and Brussels. The EU stated that in the year of the tenth anniversary of the Eastern Partnership project, the fifth anniversary of the signing of the Association Agreement with the EU and the provision of a visa-free regime for Moldovan citizens, the republic is characterized by a rather advanced stage of partial integration into the single European space.
67
AnAlysis And Forec A sting. i M e M o Journal , 2019, no. 3
World p oolitics at the same time, emphasizing in the past the leadership of Moldova in changes, encouraged
substantial amounts of financial assistance, Brussels pointed to the loss in recent years
status position of the republic, which led to a noticeable reduction in support for Chisinau from the West. But the situation is changing again. Thanks to the implementation of the Association Agreement with the EU, according to Western partners, the economic trend of the Republic of Moldova has decisively changed: Moldovan companies have managed to achieve sufficient
Successfully adapt to the requirements of the EU market.
Today, almost 70% of the total exports of the country go to the markets of united Europe.
Moldavian textile enterprises master the markets not only of the CIS, but also the European Union.
RM gradually becomes part of European industrial cooperation. According to Brussels, if in 2015–2017. The export of the Moldovan agro -industrial complex to the EU market increased by 44%, then the import of similar products from the EU to Moldova decreased by 49% [20]. In RM, optimistic European assessments of the state of the country's economy, the proportions of export products to the EU and the CIS markets are interpreted differently. Some experts doubt, for example, about the reliability of Brussels information about the successful development of the Moldavian automobile industry.
Berlin objectively evaluates in the year of the decade of “eastern partnership”
The situation in the Republic of Moldova. Steadings in society on foreign policy priorities are noted. It is believed that the reforms came to a standstill due to the increasing influence of the oligarchs on the government, which led to official criticism of Chisinau, to suspend financial assistance from the EU [21]. Adopted a month before the June events of 2019, before the formation of the government of the parliamentary majority, the resolution in the Bundestag confirms the concern of Berlin in relation to the most diligent student of the European Union. Nevertheless, the Government of Germany intends to further support political and economic reforms in the RM.
Berlin carefully analyzed the statements of M. Sandu that Moldavian
Society split - one segment connects poverty and corruption with democracy and looks towards the Kremlin, the other part of society is guided to the West, sees the chances in the European Union. The prime minister relied on rapprochement with the European Union, which, according to M. Sandu, is the highest priority of Chisinau, in practice means a radical departure from the planned economy and the transition to a model of a socially oriented economy. In Berlin, who shows great interest in rapprochement between the republic with the EU, they promise further support, however, with a reservation about the importance of manifesting their own political will to qualitative changes. No consultations or any help can be replaced by political will [22].
The government of M. Sandu could use the created reserve, the possibilities of markets
RF, CIS, EAEU, EU for recovery of their own socio-economic situation. In the summer of 2019, the EU Supreme Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy of the European Union F. Mogherini welcomed the change of power in Chisinau, who headed for reforms, announced the readiness of Brussels to provide immediate assistance to the country, including by unlocking macrofinance assistance in 100 million euros. On the same days, the European Union decided to allocate to the Republic of Moldova Grant at 14.5 million euros. Government
M. Sandu maintained dense contacts with the United States, which Chisinau called a strategic partner, counting on solid investment.
The adjustment of the project “Large package for Moldova”, which was not subject to doubt
The President of the Republic presented at the International Security Conference in Munich in February 2019. The nodular blocks of the document are devoted to the history of Moldavian statehood, it reflects the conceptual contours of building a modern democratic single neutral polyetonal state with comfortable and safe living conditions. The project states the goal of holding a high political level in Moldova in the coming years of the international conference to make possible decisions in relation to the post -conflict development of the republic.
68
Analysis and forecast.  Journal and Maam about RA, 2019, No. 3 MIRO TIKAV RM passes a painful process of getting rid of the oligarchs, understanding
past experience, the advantages of the European project are explored, interest is awakened
To Eurasian integration. In Germany, in the EU, I would like to believe, an understanding of the need to pursue a policy in the Moldovan direction not only in defense of European values, but also in the interests of a sovereign polyetonal state, its inhabitants with requests for a sustainable system of social shock absorbers, professional
training, higher education, jobs in your own country with a decent level
salaries. The Republic of Moldova, by definition, is a European country, its inhabitants do not question their European identity, and the country's leadership can use all the advantages of cooperation with Berlin, the EU, and with the Moscow, and with the CIS, the EAEU and the USA.
Relations of relations with Russia, claiming its readiness, are reloaded
It is important to restore full -format bilateral ties on the basis of a friendship and cooperation agreement from 2001. At the same time, it is important to develop relations not only through “professional gas workers”, but also in the framework of the dialogue of civil societies. This format allows you to more objectively evaluate the mood of the population of friendly Russia
European country, offer targeted projects, in particular, with the provision of grants
To study at higher educational institutions, in general, to build a line of cooperation, taking into account the needs of future generations of two states related to cultural and historical traditions and trade and economic cooperation.
The visit of M. Sandu to Moscow did not take place. One can only assume: either not
There was a desire, or she was too busy. Other reasons are not excluded. As prime minister, M. Sandu visited Bucharest, Brussels, Berlin, Kyiv. While
I. Dodon repeatedly visited Moscow, participated in events through the Eurasian Economic Union, M. Sandu did not implement the available invitation to visit the Russian Federation. She refrained from a trip to the Summit of the Heads of Government
CIS countries, which took place in Moscow on October 25, 2019 at this event
The Government of the Republic of Moldova was represented by the Minister of Economics and Infrastructure V. Brynzan. Without exaggeration, we can say that if M. Sandu came to the summit of the heads of the CIS countries, then, firstly, this would be useful and important to the republic in terms of the development of the economy, the interaction of participants in this format, for example, in the field of digital development of society. Secondly, in Moscow it would be accepted at a decent level, conversations with the first two leaders of Russia were not excluded.
Meanwhile, the statements of the head of the Government of Moldova M. Sandu o
the possibilities of holding early parliamentary elections with an assumption of viability of the authorities for only one year fed experts about experts about
deep disagreements inside the coalition. Therefore, it seemed difficult to make forecasts
About the coalition of socialists and right for the future. The contradictions between the allies by government bunch, for example, in the approaches to the decision of the Transnistrian conflict or other controversial issues could become a catalyst for early elections to the Moldovan parliament, the change of government. Inside the government coalition, a fragile balance of interests was preserved, the common denominator of which was based on consolidated efforts to deoligarchization of the country, solving pressing problems of the population. It was important to prevent the ideologization of work, which, experts were afraid, could split the coalition, destroy the agreements previously reached between partners to achieve political stability in order to reach positive indicators in the areas of economics, education, health care, pensions and environmental protection.
The contradictions between the coalition partners aggravated after the mayor's election
Chisinau. An election marathon held in two rounds in the Moldovan capital in October–November 2019 determined the winner from the Socialist Party. For the first time in many years, residents of Chisinau gave preference to a politician from the opposition left forces, among whose election promises were theses about basic improvement of the city and modernization of infrastructure.  The apogee of the confrontation between political rivals was the decision of parliament on November 12, 2019 on the resignation of the government
M. Sandu. The reason was the prime minister's plans to bypass the parliament
69
AnAlysis And Forec A sting. i M e M o Journal , 2019, no. 3
World P Olitics Cantidates for the post of Prosecutor General of the Republic. The decision was unexpected not
Only for the socialists - partners in the coalition, but also for single -party ones from the right block. The initiative of the vote of distrust was made by the Socialist faction, as a result of which 63 (total 101 deputies) parliamentarian with the support of deputies from the Democratic Party of Moldova spoke out for the resignation. According to German experts, partners dispersed on the distribution of important state posts, the struggle for the post of general
prosecutor.
The Votum of Dorrotion cited the Cabinet of Ministers at the head, as emphasized in Berlin, with
The most pro -Western prime minister of RM to retire. President I. Dodon called on all political
The parties urgently take measures to create a new government, otherwise the political crisis will cause painful socio-economic consequences. The Germans quite objectively explained the reasons for the vote of distrust of the government M. Sandu, who, on the basis of updated legislation, planned to hold her candidate for the post of general prosecutor of the country. Socialists who warned of the perniciousness of such a step became the initiators of the vote of no confidence in the government. The European Union and Romania expressed deep concern about the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers M.
Sandu, since her government was a guarantor of reforms, compliance with personal
Rights and freedoms of citizens of the republic [23].
Meanwhile, coalition partners - socialists announced readiness further
To continue reforms in the field of justice, confirmed this approach in conversations with the head of the OSCE mission in Chisinau, the US Ambassador to the Republic of Moldova.  The Russian diplomatic mission in Chisinau advocated preserving internal political stability in the interests of citizens and the supremacy of law in the RM. As the leaders of the socialists emphasize, the update should take place dynamically, in the interests of society, and not in the interests of any party, one politician, one person. Socialists, a number of experts insist on their version of M. Sandu's departure, according to which she acted well
thoughtful plan. Firstly, the former prime minister has lost their abilities to conduct
Fundamental transformations in the socio-economic sphere, and secondly, it was the opportunity to enter the election race for the president’s post. The elections of the head of state are outlined in the fall of 2020. It is noteworthy that immediately after the government’s resignation, she, as a PDS leader, admitted to the ambitions to take the presidential post.
Although M. Sandu was harshly criticized for the modest results of her premiere with
July to November 12, 2019, nevertheless, the government of the parliamentary majority was able to fulfill part of the obligations. Thanks to the efforts of M. Sandu, its reputation reformer-politician with liberal views of the EU provided Moldova 54 million
the euro as budget support and the first tranche of about 30 million euros per
assistance in the microfinance sector. The dialogue with Moscow has been significantly advanced and normalized, although without its personal participation; relations with Kiev have received a new impetus. Particularly noteworthy is the abolition of trade restrictions on Moldovan export products, especially agricultural products, on the Russian market.
The oath of the government led by the new Prime Minister I. Kiku
On November 14, 2019, it designated priority directions of domestic and foreign policy. The urgency of reforms in the field of economics, social security, justice, law enforcement system, and the fight against corruption is emphasized. In foreign policy, the emphasis is on the implementation of the Association Agreement with the European Union, the restoration of strategic
relations with the Russian Federation and the USA, further development of cooperation, friendship, good neighborliness with
Romania and Ukraine. The head of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Moldova emphasized the significance of domestic policy in the interests of the residents of the republic, as well as a balanced foreign policy that will not allow Chisinau into the geopolitical games of other countries.
German experts regretfully stated the failure of the reformist
An experiment that lasted only five months, a short term of the government of the reformers, led by the exponent of radical reforms, incorruptible pro -Western politician M. Sandu. At the same time, concern was expressed about the new
70
Analysis and forecast.  Journal and Maram RA, 2019, No. 3Miro Tikupremere Moldova I. Kiku, whom German analysts consider to be a protege
president. The latter, according to the Germans, will clearly slow down the reforms with its pro -Russian sentiments and can even turn back the development of the country. In Berlin, I. Kiku is perceived as criticism of integration with the EU.
It is known that, being an adviser to the head of state, in one of his comments he
On Facebook, he accused the EU high officials of complicity of fraud of the oligarchs. After
The nomination of his candidacy for the post of prime minister I. Kiku deleted these comments, but in Berlin they did not forget the accusations. Prime Minister's attempts to justify himself in Berlin and Brussels, apparently, were not seriously perceived.
According to German experts made in November 2019, one of the poorest
European countries are “in a state of agony”, torn by corruption organized crime, and its citizens lost socio-economic prospects. In turn, ACUM policies, which for the most part have come out of the protest movement, do not have experience in practical work, are naive. Instead of decisive steps to carry out radical reforms to build a rule of law and establish a management system for “shock therapy”, the leaders of the right bloc made strategic personnel errors, could not act offensive against the socialists [24].
The new premiere of the Republic of Moldova is 47 years old, he is a professional economist with
Great experience in state structures. It is not in political parties. His career path from the head of management to the Minister of Finance was reinforced by scientific research in the areas of micro and macroeconomics, working at the profile department of the university. He participated in targeted projects, including through the World Bank. In early 2018, he was appointed Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Moldova, from December 2018 to June 2019 he was the Minister of Finance. From June 2019, before the prime minister approved the presidential adviser.
Before the government, headed by I. Kiku, which is evaluated by experts as
The Cabinet of Professional Ministers, there are difficult tasks for the country's withdrawal from the crisis, the restoration of citizens' confidence in the executive branch, designed to start reforming projects for the benefit of the people. Given the traditions of the change of power in the republic, it seems difficult to make forecasts in relation to the work of the new government, the course and prospects of reforms. How subtly the government of the country feels the fears of the inhabitants, whose desire for serious changes is associated with the fear of social fees, psychological costs, especially if the changes are spasmodic, the future will show.
Analysts proceed from the inadmissibility of the ideologization of transformations, recommend
The Russian Federation, the EU, the United States to relate to the RM as a sovereign state, whose leaders, experts hope, will pursue a multi -vector policy. The tendency of a number of politicians, experts, journalists of the Russian Federation, Germany, other European countries, the United States to artificially divide the Moldovan society into pro-Russian and projuroral citizens, not to mention parties, does not contribute to the consolidation of socio-political forces, weakens the intellectual potential of the republic in terms of leaving the crisis, counteracting new challenges and risks.
List of literature in RE / References
1. A contract of the parliamentary groups CDU/ CSU, SPD, FDP and Alliance 90/ Die Greens. The European integration of the
Republic of Moldova support. 06/25/2008. Available AT: http://dipbt.bundag.de/
doc/btd/16/097/1609755.pdf (accessed 04.05.2019).
2.K
Zhokin E.M. Moldova. Modern development trends. Moscow, Rosspen, 2004. 492 p. [Kozhokin
E.M. Moldaviya: Sovremennye tendentsii razvitiya [Moldavia: Current Tendencies of Development]. Moscow, ROSSPEN, 2004. 492 p.]
3.
D
As German-Moldau Forum. Available AT: http://www.deutsch-moldauisches-forum.de (Accessed
07.07.2019).
4th East P
Art nonsense: Moldova takes on pioneering role. German Society for Foreign Policy
(DGAP), 22.10.2012–23.10.2012. Available at: https://dgap.org/de/node/22473(accessed 05.07.2019).
71
AnAlysis And Forec A sting. i M e M o Journal , 2019, no. 3
World P Olitics5.'s route battles of election in Moldova. Deutsche Welle, April 7th, 2009. Available AT: https: // www.
dw.com/de/straßenschlachten-nach-wahl-in-moldawien/a-4159185 (accessed 14.04.2019).
6. Almost by
Lovina of citizens of Moldova regrets the collapse of the USSR and is ready to join it.
[Almost half of Moldovan citizens sregret the collapse of the USSR and are ready to join it (In Russ.)]
Available at: https://nokta.md/opros-zhiteli-moldovy-vse-eshhe-nostalg/ (accessed 16.11.2019).
7.C
ozer A. The legacy strikes back. January 6, 2017. Available at: https://www.zeit.de/politik/ausland/2017-01/
Republic-Moldau-Sovjetunion-Russian-emigration/complete view? Print (Accessed08.2019).
8.M
Ehrk.-M. Showdown in the poorest country of Europe's alliance supports with oligarchs.
09.06.2019. Available at: https://www.merkur.de/politik/moldova-showdown-im-aermsten-land-europas-polit-krieg-mit-oligarchen-zr-12363702.html (accessed 20.06.2019).
9.
Chisinau: We
Ldavia and Romania will unite in the space of the common values ​​of the EU and NATO. 10/23/2013.
[Chisinau: Moldova and Romania will unite in the space of common values of the EU and NATO (In Russ.)] Available at: https://regnum.ru/news/1723563.html (accessed 15.11.2019).
10.
TO
Osmin GUSHE: The United States is considering the possibility of uniting Moldova with Romania. Moldavian
ведомости, 18.06.2018. [Cosmin Gusa: The USA is considering the possibility of unification of Moldovawith Romania (In Russ.)] Moldavskie vedomosti, 18.06.2018. Available at: http://www.vedomosti.md/news/kosmin-gushe-ssha-rassmatrivayut-vozmozhnost-obedineniya-mol (accessed 20.06.2019).
11.
Sieg
M., Avram A. Romania and Republic of Moldova: 100th anniversary of the
Committed party celebration. 03/29/2018. Available AT: https://www.kas.de/web/moldau/laenderberichte/detail/-/rumaenien-und- Republik-moldau-100-jubilae-jubilaeum-der-vereiniglich-Ehrlich--
12.
Na
TO Liaison Office in Moldova opened in Chisinau. 08.12.2017. Available at: https://gov.md/en/content/
nato-liaison-office-moldova-opened-chisinau (accessed 12.06.2019).
13. with
Emeenova Yu. Moldavia and NATO became closer a step. Deutsche Welle, 12/08/2017. [Semenova
Yu. Moldaviya I Nato Stali Blizhe Eshche Na Shag [Moldova and Nato Became More Step Closer] .deutsche Welle, 12/08/2017.] Available at: https://www.dw.com/ru/moldavia- and-noma-steel-it-on-shag/a-41712689 (Accessed 06/14/2019).
14.
C we
The NATO Information and Documentation Center was opened in Ldov. 03.10.2007. [NATO information and
documentation Centre opened in Moldova (In Russ.)] Available at: https://www.nato.int/cps/ru/natohq/news_8221.htm?selectedLocale=ru (accessed 09.12.2019).
15.
Moldova lean na
TO membership strictly. May 15, 2018. Available AT: https://smopo.ch/moldawier-
Lehnen-Nato membership strict AB/ (Accessed June 24, 2019).
16. D
German Bundestag. 106th session. May 21, 2015. Available at: http://dipbt.bundestag.de/dip21/
btp/18/18106.pdf#P.10049 (accessed 15.11.2019).
17.jagland
T. Bring Moldova Back Fromthe Brink. The New York Times, 10.08.2015. Available at: https://www.
nytimes.com/2015/08/11/opinion/bring-moldova-back-from-the-brink.html?_r=0 (accessed 15.11.2019).
18.pistorners
T. of the billions of crime mishest country in Europe. The world, 08/27/2018. Available AT: https: //
www.welt.de/politik/ausland/article181211552/Republik-Moldau-Der-Milliarden-Krimi-im-aermsten-Land-Europas.html (accessed 14.06.2019).
19.
P
Realization of Chancellor Merkel and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Moldova, Maia
Sandu. 16.07.2019. Available at: https://www.bundeskanzlerin.de/bkin-de/aktuelles/pressekonferenz-von-bundeskanzlerin-merkel-und-der-ministerpraesidentin-der-republik-moldau-maia-sandu-1648712
(accessed 17.07.2019).
20.
TO
alak D. EU Ambassador to Moldova Peter Michalko: DCFTA has changed the Moldovan
economy. Economic Review “Logos-Press”, 06/07/2019. [Kalak D. Posol ES v Moldove Peter
Mikhalko: DCFTA VPECHATLYYYUSHIM OBRAZOM IZMENIL MOLDAVSKUYU EKONOMIKU [EU Ambassadorto Moldova Peter Michalko: DCFTA HAS CHANGED THE MOLDOVAN ECO Impressive Way] .ekonomicheskoe obozrenie “Logos-Press”, 06/07/2019.] Avainable at: http://logos.press.md/1283_11_1/
(accessed 09.12.19).
21.
Z
East year's Eastern partnership of the European Union. German Bundestag, May 10, 2019. Available
at: https://www.bundestag.de/dokumente/textarchiv/2019/kw19-de-oestliche-partnerschaft-eu-635476
(accessed 17.07.2019).
22. “
I want to build up the trust of the citizens' re -establishment ”. Moldovan Prime Minister Will
Corruption fighting and the raw molar is moving to the EU. 07/17/2019. Available AT: https://www.kas.de/
event reports/detail/-/content/we-want-to-rebuild-the-trust-of-the-citizens (accessedJuly 17, 2019).
23.
After M
vote of no confidence. Unusual government alliance in Moldova failed. The mirror
online, 12.11.2019. Available at: https://www.spiegel.de/politik/ausland/moldau-ungewoehnliches-regierungsbuendnis-nach-misstrauensvotum-gescheitert-a-1296159-druck.html (accessed 17.11.2019).
24.
V
ERSECK K. At the end of a short reform experiment. 11/15/2019. Available AT: https://www.dw.com/de/ende-
a short reform experiment/A-51262621 (accessed November 16, 2019).
72
Analysis and forecast.  Magazine and Maam about RA, 2019, No. 3 MIRO TIAI EUROP EAN P ath of M Oldova: Ill Usions and Realit Y
(SPECIFIC CIRCUMS TANCE S
(Analysis and Forecasting. IMEMO Journal, 2019, no. 3, pp. 59-72)
Received 17.07.2019.
Viktor I. Vasili EV (VVI-1947@ya ndex.ru),
Primakov Natio nal Research Institute of World Economy and National Rel ations, Russian Academy of
Sciences (IMEMO) , 23, Profsoyuzn aya Str., Moscow 117997, Russian Fe deration.
The article is devoted to the i nfluence exercised by Germany, the European Union , the USA, and Rus sia
on Moldavia’s hom e and foreign policy in the conte xt of integrat ion processes in Europe and in the post-
Soviet territori es. The analysis  of the causes of Kis hinev’s failures in carrying out th e reforms testi fies to the
mistakes made by Germany, the  EU, the USA,  and the Russ ian Federation due to the underes timation of
the Moldavian oligarchic clans  which seized  the key posts i n the governmental structures. Whil e relying
on the support from Russia, the EU and the USA, the par liamentary maj ority in Moldova su cceeded in
bringing into bein g a governmental coalition compose d of the Party of Sociali sts and the right- wing
block ACUM. The  compromise ope ns prospects fo r a mutually benefici al cooperation of Moldova with
Russia, the CIS, the EAEU, t he EU, and the USA. The statement by Chancellor A. Merkel  in June 2019 as
to the absence of trustworthy i nformation about the depth of pol itical crisis i n Moldova is either  an
evidence of poor performance by German d iplomats, or a n evidence of Berlin’s delibe rate disregard
of the activit ies by political  forces in Moldova who are  identifying thems elves as pro-Euro pean. One
thing is clear: havi ng seen the endorsement of the Kiev regim e by Germany, the E U and the USA, the
oligarchs in Moldova also decided to assume th e reins of authority  within the country. Meanwhile the
pronouncements  by the head of the government M. Sandu on the possibility of  holding out-of-term
parliamentary e lections and the  supposed viability of the governm ent that can last only one year
encourage the experts in th eir assumptio ns that there are profound diff erences i nside t he c oalition.
Therefore, any f orecasts of the fu ture of the coaliti on between sociali sts and the right-w ing forces seem
difficult to  ma ke. Co ntradictio ns be tween th e pa rticipants i n  th e gover nmental al liance, fo r example
regarding the ap proaches to the sol ution of the confl ict in Transdniestr ia, may act as a cat alyst on the
out-of-term elections to the Mol dav ian parliament.
Apprehensions co ncerning the like ly resignation of  the g overnment of parliamentary majority co mposed
of socialists and the right- wing forces headed by Pre mier Maia Sandu (the right-w ing bloc) came true.
According to the experts, she did not seek agreement with he r socialist partner s in the coalition when
planning to upd ate the legis lative procedu re for appointing  Prosecutor Gene ral. Nor she co nsulted the
members of her own  party. A step of this kind could have stren gthened the positions of the government’s
right-wing bloc and secure a favourable head-start f or the Premier wh en launching the R epublic’s
presidential elections of 2020. Maia Sandu’s government was fired by means of th e no confidence vote
lodged by the socialists in par liament.
The new government of Moldova headed by Prime Minister Iona Kik u (no party affil iation) decla red its
intention to pursu e reforms in th e fields o f e conomy, j ustice, s ta te g overnance, t o g o a head w ith t he
implementation of the Agreement of Association with the European  Uni on, to build bac k Kishinev’s
strategic relations with Mos cow and Washington and to p romote cooperati on and friendship with
Ukraine and Roma nia. Now there are  too  few people who ven ture  to predict the capa city of Moldova’s
new government.
Russia has an incentive in the resumption of a pragma tic and mutually ben eficial dialog with  Mo ldova
in various fields  on the basis of the 2001 Tre aty of Friendship and Cooperation.
Keywords: the CIS, Russia, Moldova , Germany, Europea n Union, Easter n Partnership, the EAEU, European
integration, NATO.
About the author:
Viktor I. VASILI EV, Doct. Sci. (Polit. Sci.), Leading Researche r, Sector of Politic al Aspects of
European Integrat ion, Department of European Pol itical Studies.
Two: 10.20542/A FIJ-2019-3-59-72