=== Перевод (ru ➜ en) ===
Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Moldova Agency for Information Resources Legce
mun.chisinau str 31 August 1989 no 82
Marcel Alexei
Mun.chişnău str a Doga nr 30 ap 38
Ministry of Justice
Of the Republic of Moldova
Resources Agency
Legal information
sir. 31 August 1989, nr. 82
MD- 2012, тип. Chisinau,
tel. : 022 820886, Fax: 022 820886
www.iustice.md
J ş. 2021 Nr. 12-25 / </ №
Mrs. Maceret Alexei
Chisinau mun., str. A. Doga, no. 30, ap. 38
By the presence, with reference to Petition no. 185 of 28.01.2021, regarding the explanation
The procedure for applying the apostille on certain acts issued by the CSJ, the apostil direction
and legalization within the Agency Legal Information Resources informs you that:
According to art. 3 of the Convention on suppressing the requirement of over -legalization
foreign official acts, concluded on October 5, 1961, the only formality that would
It could be required to attest the veracity of the signature, the quality in which it acted
The signator of the act or, as the case may be, the identity of the seal or stamp on this act,
is the application of the apostille.
In the same context, according to point 4 of the Regulation on application
Apostile, approved by the Government Decision no.163 of 15.02.2007 stipulates that
Application of the apostilly - the only formality that can be requested to attest
The veracity of the signature, the quality in which the signatory of the act or, as the case may be, acted.
'The authenticity of the seal and the stamp on this act. Taking into account the provisions given,
For the application of the apostille, the presented act must contain, the signature
to the person responsible for issuing the act and the official stamp of the institution from which
The act emanates.
According to point 8 of the Regulation for the application of the apostilly presents only
The official documents drawn up on the territory of the Republic of Moldova. Thus, point 4 of
Regulation, stipulates that, official act - the original act, prepared in the form established by
Law, issued by a public authority or by the person authorized by the state to
It provides public services on its behalf.
At the same time, we mention that, according to point 9 letter. J of the Regulation, the Agency Resources
Legal informational is responsible for applying apostles on copies and
The notarial legalized translations of the apostilated acts, which means that first they are
Apply apostille to the original act.
Moreover, we mention that, point 27, letter. F of the Regulation stipulates that
The application of the apostille can be refused if the responsible authority does not hold
the specimens of the signatures of the authorized persons and the imprint of the seals or
the stamps of the appropriate institutions.
As for the translation of the conclusion presented, we communicate that according to point 14
of the regulation, if the recipient state is required to present the translation
performed in the issuing state, the documents, after apostille, are translated into the language of the country of
Destination by a translator including apostilly, after which signature
The translator is legalized by a notary, and finally on the legalized translation se
Apply apostille.
Therefore we mention that the acts annexed to this petition, according to
The legal provisions do not meet the requirements of an official act and as an effect cannot be subject to
the apostille procedure.
Executor: Tatiana link
Tel.:022 20 14 56; Fax: 022 20 14 77
Ministry of Justice
Of the Republic of Moldova
Resources Agency
Legal information
Sir. August 31, 1989, no. 82 MD- 2012, тип. Chisinau,
tel. : 022 820886, Fax: 022 820886 www.justice.md
25.07.2021 № . 12-25 / 487
Mr. Macheret Alexey mun Kishinev , st. A. Doga, d
30, apt. 38 Hereby, referring to petition no.
185 of 01/28/2021, regarding clarification of the procedure
Apostille affixing on some documents,
submitted by the VSP, the management of the apostille and legalization
Agencies of legal information resources
informs you that: According to Art. 3 Convention Fr.
the fight against re -legalization of foreign
official documents concluded on October 5
1961, the only formality that can
required to confirm authenticity
signature, quality with which the signer
acted, or, as in some cases
identity of the seal or stamp on this act,
is the affixing of an apostille. In the same
context, according to paragraph 4 of the Regulations on
affixing an apostille approved
Government Decree No. 163 of February 15, 2007
g., affixing an apostille is the only
formality that can be requested for
confirmation of reliability signature, quality, with
which the signatory acted or, in
depending on the circumstances, the authenticity of the seal and
stamp on this document. Taking into account
these provisions for affixing an apostille
1Technical translation.
the submitted document must contain
signature of the person responsible for issuing the document,
and the official stamp of the institution from which
The document comes. According to paragraph 8 of the Regulation on
affixing an apostille, are represented only
official documents issued in
territory of the Republic of Moldova. Thus ,
paragraph 4 of the Regulations provides that
The official act is the original act drawn up in
form established by law, issued by the body
state power or person,
to provide an authorized state
Public services on his behalf. At the same time
we note that according to paragraph 9 letter j of the Regulations,
Legal Information Resources Agency
is responsible for putting the apostille on
notarized copies and translations
documents with an apostille, which implies that
The apostille on the original document is applied first.
In addition, we note that paragraph 27, letter f
The provisions provides that in the apostilization
Apostille may be refused if
There are no samples of signatures of the responsible authority
authorized persons and print of seals or stamps
relevant institutions. Regarding
translation of the presented conclusion, we
We inform you that in accordance with paragraph 14
Regulations, if in the state -recruiter
It will be necessary to provide a translation made
in the issuing state, documents after apostille
the country of destination is translated into the language
translator translator's signature notarized
certified, and, finally, for a legalized translation
2
an apostille is affixed. Therefore we note that
documents attached to this petition, according to
the provisions of the law do not meet the requirements
official act and, as a consequence, cannot be
Apostille is subjected to the procedure.
Director / signature / Gheorghe Nicolaescu
3