=== Перевод (ru ➜ en) ===
1
1RA-834/09
Chairman of the Supreme Court
From Macheret Alexey - disabled person of the 1st group
IDNP: 2000001159655
Tel. 022-492290 and mob. 079902963
Statement
The case of establishing a fact of legal significance.
I ask on the basis of Article 281 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Moldova - on the establishment of the fact of receipt
For the first time received the transfer of the decision 1RA -834/09 - acquittal
The definitions of the Supreme Court - in the only accessible Russian language
- according to the presented copies of the most translated decision, as well as
cover letter and stamp on seals with the established date from
01/15/2021 - coinciding with the date of receipt and my signature in
receipt, as in the receipt - on the cover letter itself.
In accordance with Article 281 part 2 - The court establishes
facts on which the emergence, change or termination depends
personal and property rights of individuals and organizations.
Since the private ruling of the Constitutional Court of November 27, 2019
- the question related to the interpretation of Decree No. 79 dated 01.26.2006 -
was in
as an advisory opinion - returned to the appeal
The Chamber - which made the final decision - related to the unequivocal
legal rehabilitation - according to the Supreme Court Determination 1RA-834/09.
Despite the mistake in the surname - Macheret - submitted to the Constitutional Court
under the surname “Mokryak”, private determination of the Constitutional Court -
was the decision under the identification number of the case of the appeal
Chambers Case No. l0r-1009/19
The decision itself was made in connection with the application of the CHIKAN court to the case of
legal rehabilitation - the norms of “res judicata”.
In this regard, Macchal initially - first stated through the court of mints - about
extreme unconstitutionality - but due to the unexpected resignation
th composition
Constitutional Court - the case was referred as a normal appeal or
Cassation to the appeal chamber - Moon. Chisinau.
Therefore, dated 10/23/2019, Macchact repeatedly stated through the appeal
The chamber in accordance with Article 135 of the Constitution of the Republic of Moldova - and, accordingly
2 Articles 7 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Republic of Moldova and 121 (note) - as objects - extreme
unconstitutionality when legislative and regulatory acts -
Monitorial officers printed in accordance with laws No. 780 and
its updated version of Law No. 100 - are interpreted differently - than indicated
in the official publishing of this law.
Since the arguments were presented in a language different from the state. language
The Constitutional Court received in the state language - after
relevant transfer at a separate application and a reference to its
Disability or Law No. 60 - On Protection
e is the rights of disabled people when any
discrimination of a disabled person - can be considered - discrimination on the basis
disability.
Criminal board of the appeal chamber - observing the regulations of this -
appeals - without even expressing a comment - were conveyed according to individual
petitions from Macchaet and strictly within the framework of constitutionality - first on
translation of Macheret's address itself into state language. language, and only then in
Constitutional Court.
In the process of re-
water - there was an error in the surname - the applicant - instead of
Macheret - became a mokryak.
When Macheret - having contacted the office of the Constitutional Court - immediately
After the meeting. In order to make sure the rules provided for
corresponding to Article 7 Part 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Republic of Moldova and Article 121 (note) of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Republic of Moldova - that
despite the translation - his application - should have been immediately within an hour
reported - to the office of the Constitutional Court - in the form of an electronic
alerts - since the case concerned - facts having - an extreme degree
executions of regulations, when only to declare, are such cases.
As a result of the fact that Macheret did not know about the mistake in writing
Surnames - instead of “Macchaet” - “Mokryak”.
Therefore, he was forced to independently and without a transfer to the state. Serve language:
as it is, what was accepted from 10/23/2019 and its application
was
adopted by the office of the Constitutional Court - on the condition that if from
The Chamber of Appeal - nothing will come - he will receive it under this incoming
number 100 cg - refusal will be given.
Already not having time - to make an unlogging application - not even assuming - why
According to the regulations, nothing came to the Constitutional Court - according to the adopted
Strictly according to the regulations of 10/23/2019 - as objects of the extreme
unconstitutionality the next day - with a wet seal
Constitutional Court dated October 23, 2019 - that was re-submitted
3rd editorial office adopted by the criminal college and transferred then
In the evening through
the office of the Constitutional Court - that is why
registered a day later on October 24, 2019.
Like
promised by the office of the Constitutional Court - since the cases are under
surname
They did not have Macher - they gave an answer - a refusal.
How did the decision or particular Determination of the Constitutional Law become known?
Court or advisory opinion - issued in connection with interpretation
Decree No. 79 - Criminal College of the Supreme Court of July 21, 2009
year - referring to Article 46 of Law No. 780 - having - consequences
conclusion - about
application of “retroactive” force - to Resolution No. 43 - when
Resolution No. 79 - did not provide for criminal liability - for that
quantity
stored without a prescription - the drug - which has become
the reason for applying extreme criminal punishment is related to
application of “Special and strict regime” punishments.
Therefore, based on the fact that in the decision of the case No. L0R -1009/19 - it was
issued despite protests from the prosecutor from the Prosecutor General's Office -
dispositive
decision and
that when considering the judge Mazuret to
who got it - this case - for the first time at the meeting was in process
debate - with the same prosecutor - who did not understand anything in the procedure
provided for in articles
121(note) of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Republic of Moldova and Article 7 part 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Republic of Moldova -
was announced at the meeting itself - an advisory opinion
Constitutional Court - based on which Determination 1RA-834/09 -
will be loyal to the court of Buyukan - for the retraining of the ruling in
Acquittal subject to additional revision
according to the recommendations of the Constitutional Court.
Macheret was unable to familiarize himself with the recommendations themselves due to incorrect
specified
His surname "Mokryak" instead of Macher.
To avoid
speculation - from - softened and time spent on
correction of a technical error - Macheret - asks to establish the fact -
Rulings of the Supreme Court 1RA -834/09 - as an acquittal of r - a
Not a simple definition.
Requests to take into account, in accordance with Article 281 part 2, that Macheret was
under
special and severe punishment and not only in PU-15 Cricova. And what
punishment - “special and strict regime” acted with a public decision 1A-
42/09 dated 03/03/2009 from beginning to end to its actual release
dated July 21, 2009. That. there is more than 6 months.
4 Based on corrections for a technical error in the surname - in the definition
Constitutional Court - make an unambiguous definition - the date when was
Only affordable
for Macheret himself - as if received for the first time
Translation from 01/15/2021, so that it can have civilian and
political rights and the facts of distribution could be suppressed
information - infringing on, there is dignity and business reputation - if
the person from whom the information comes is unknown according to Article 281 part 2
point m).
According to
with Article 282 when the conditions necessary to establish
facts having
Legal consequences - parts (1) - service refusal
Apostille - register and legalize the date of receipt - how
For the first time received -
translation only accessible - for disabled people of the 1st group
and on the only understood
in their language so that he might have some
or
Rights.
In establishing the fact that in the form in which Maces was - was
this Definition is presented
- It has never been published on the state.
language
and even more so in the target language - when by definition
Constitutional Court
- it being an acquittal -
mandatory for publication - within the framework of legalization and execution
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and Resolution
40/34
UN - more obligatory for all state. Organs of Moldova.
Establish a fact - obligation
To the publication of the decision in the Office
The monitor is fine.
In the matter of jurisdiction according to Article 282 part 2 - special proceedings and
article
283 - by establishing jurisdiction - the Supreme Court and permission
this statement, as related to the recommendations of the constitutional
Court
and by the decision of the Supreme Court on this issue - so
and not implemented by lower authorities.
According to
Article 284 - I attach the following evidence -
The above facts are copies of the documents themselves and in accordance with them
Please
install:
1. Determination of 1RA -834/09 - acquittal.
2. Date of receipt - from 01/15/2021 - in the only available language.
3. Obligation to print in the Official Monitor
4.Apostille
5.Right to consular transfer - to the UN ICJ for legal
Rehabilitation in Moldova.
5 I attach:
1) Case No. l0r-1009/19
2) an application for extreme non -constitutionality of 10.23.2019
3) Determination and cover letter 1RA-834/09
4) Proving the error in the surname Mokryak
instead of Macheret
5) Other proving legal facts - documents.
I ask you to accept this statement as it is in accordance with Law No. 60 - O
Protection of the rights of disabled people and a resolution of 40/34 of the UN.
Macheret _________
It was registered at the address: Moon. Kishinev
st. Colgaceanu, 70 in the Secretariat of the Supreme
Vessels with the above documents - today from
02/11/2021.